WELCOME TO THE TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 3RD, TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MAX KELLY, WOULD YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
ABSOLUTELY.
NOTING THAT CHAIR OF THE
ADVISES HE WOULD BE ABSENT IN
ADVANCE, COMMISSIONER NORTON
YOUR HONOR ADAMS HERE
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE HERE,
SHAMOS HERE, COUNCIL MEMBER
THIS YEAR, COMMISSIONER EVANS
HERE, SECRETARY HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE, VICE CHAIR WISCH HERE YOU
THANK YOU.
>> MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY I
OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES MAY I
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES OF THE NOVEMBER 19TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MEETING
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DAESH ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
SEEING NONE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
SAY I OPPOSE THE MOTION IS NEXT
UP ARE THE REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
>> WE START WITH YOU COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH IF YOU ARE READY.
>> YES.
LAST NIGHT ON FIRST READING OUR
CHANGES TO FENCE'S
REIMBURSEMENTS AND UTILITIES
SAILED THROUGH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE A MANDATORY
REPORT THIS EVENING?
YOU DO FOR MY FIRST STATE I'D
LIKE TO SHARE THAT WE ARE
GROWING OUR STAFF YET ONCE
MORE.
WE WELCOMED YESTERDAY PART TIME
ZONING COORDINATOR CHARLIE
COLLINS AND MR. COLLINS WILL
ATTEND THE ZEBA TOMORROW.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO HIS HELP
WITH OUR HIGH VOLUME ZONING
PERMIT SITE VISITS AND OTHER
VARIOUS TASKS TO ASSIST MR.
BARRETT AND THE ZONING
COORDINATION PART OF THE
DEPARTMENT.
I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO SHARE AS
AN OUTGROWTH
OF YOUR REQUEST
DURING COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS WE WILL BE INVITING
AND ENGAGING IN DISCUSSION WITH
JENNIFER HALL AND OTHERS OF THE
ANN ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
RELATED TO QUESTIONS ON
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND
MANAGEMENT THAT WERE RAISED
UTILITIES AND HOW THAT IS
MANAGED WITH MOST LOW TECH LOW
INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDIT
PROPOSAL QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY
HAVE PARKING AND PARKING RATIOS
AND HOW THOSE ARE MANAGED AND
OR LOBBIED THROUGH AS WELL AS
OTHER TOPICS.
SO PLEASE SUBMIT YOUR QUESTIONS
IN ADVANCE.
YOU CAN DO THAT BY REPLYING TO
THE AGENDA AFTER IT IS
PUBLISHED AND SHARED WITH YOU.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO ADD THAT
WE HAVE A REQUEST FROM JUST
TODAY THAT IS COMING TO US FROM
CITY COUNCIL WHO WILL BE
ORGANIZING A PERIODIC POLICY
COMMITTEE AND THEY'RE ASKING
FOR BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
PARTICULAR BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS TO WEIGH IN ON
THEIR POLICY AGENDA CREATION.
SO I WILL BE CREATING A
DISCUSSION ITEM TO YOUR WORKING
SESSION AS WELL TO PREVIEW THE
CURRENT COUNCIL POLICY AGENDA
AND OFFER THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
YOU TO ADVISE ANY OMISSIONS OR
ADDITIONS THAT YOU SEE IN THE
CURRENT VERSION AND THEN YOU
WILL HAVE A CHANCE IN JANUARY
TO OFFICIALLY APPROVE A
RESOLUTION WITH WHAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO SEE.
THANK YOU.
JUST A CLARIFICATION FOR MY
PART BECAUSE WHILE I WAS
LISTENING INTENTLY I MAY HAVE
MISSED THIS THE WORKING SESSION
THAT JENNIFER HALL IS ATTENDING
IS SCHEDULED FOR DECEMBER 10TH
GRADE NEXT WEDNESDAY THAT
VIRTUALLY VERY GOOD.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY OH
SORRY.
DO OTHER COMMISSION OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
I'M BACK IN FIVE.
ALL RIGHT.
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS FOR
TODAY'S MEETING IS AVAILABLE IN
TODAY'S PACKET.
IT SHOULD ALSO BE AVAILABLE IN
LEGISLATURE.
DOES THAT INCLUDE THE PRINTED
COPY THAT WE HAVE IN FRONT
OF US FROM COMMISSIONER ADAMS?
>> YES, ALL OF THE
COMMUNICATION KNOW THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COMMISSIONER
ADAMS IS NOT APPROPRIATE TO ADD
UNDER THE COMMUNICATIONS
BECAUSE AS A COMMISSIONER HE
HAS PRIVILEGE TO RAISE WHATEVER
DURING THE OPEN DISCUSSION
OF THAT ITEM.
SO WE CHOSE NOT TO INCLUDE IT
IN THE PACKET IF THAT'S
SOMETHING COMMISSIONERS WOULD
LIKE TO SEE.
IT SEEMED A LITTLE OUT OF THE
ORDINARY TO DO THAT FOR STAFF
SO WE CHOSE NOT OK WE CAN TABLE
THAT BECAUSE COLLECTED IN THE
MINUTES AND REFLECTED IN THE
DISCUSSION AND THERE'S
PRIVILEGE TO RAISE THOSE ISSUES
AT ANY TIME.
SO CURRENTLY NO.
OK, THANK YOU.
NOW MOVING ON TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER SIX THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ON
ISSUES NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE CHAMBERS
WITH US THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
CRESTAR NINE ON THE PHONE OR
USE THE RACE HAND FEATURE IF
YOU ARE CONNECTING THE ASSUME
FOR PHONE ACCESS YOU CAN CALL
ONE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN FIVE
EXCUSE ME EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE
TWO TWO SEVEN AND IN OUR
MEETING I'D NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME FOR RESUME PARTICIPANTS
YOU WILL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION TONIGHT
?
WE'LL WELCOME IN SPITE OF YOUR
RELUCTANCE TO COME AND ADDRESS
US FOR THREE MINUTES WE ARE
GRATEFUL TO HAVE YOU HERE.
WE ARE A FRIENDLY BUNCH THOUGH
WE CAN'T TALK DIRECTLY TO YOU
UNLESS YOU TALK TO US FIRST AND
SO THAT'S HOW IT'LL GO.
WE'LL JUST SIT HERE AND SEE
WHAT KIND OF NOTES YOU'RE
TAKING.
OH, YOU CAN COME RIGHT UP.
YOU DO UNFORTUNATELY BECAUSE WE
HAVE TO BROADCAST YOUR VOICE TO
THOSE WHO MAY BE CONNECTED.
I HAVE MORE OF A QUESTION JUST
OUT OF CURIOSITY.
MY NAME IS CAMERON JAFFREY'S.
I LIVE ON FIVE TO FIVE BENJAMAN
IT'S A STUDENT HOUSE SO THIS IS
MY LAST YEAR HERE.
IT'S MY FIRST YEAR LIVING IN
THIS HOUSE.
BUT I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT KIND
OF THE I'M SURE THERE'S ONLINE
INFORMATION BUT IF THERE'S
ANYTHING NEW ABOUT THE ROLLING
OUT OF THE NEW DORMS I THINK
THAT ARE BEING BUILT OVER ON
HOOVER.
RIGHT.
IS THAT I NOTICED THAT THERE
WAS A STOP SIGN PUT UP AND THEN
IT WAS COVERED AND I WAS
THINKING ABOUT KIND OF LIKE THE
FLOW OF TRAFFIC AROUND THAT
AREA, ESPECIALLY WITH A LOT
OF STUDENTS WALKING AROUND
BECAUSE I NOTICED IT'S GOING TO
BE A QUAD IS THERE ANYTHING
THAT'S GOING TO BE DONE TO
CHANGE THE NEARBY STREETS OR
KIND OF WHAT'S THE I ONLY LIKE
GLANCED AT THE PROJECT BUT I
DON'T KNOW IF THIS KIND
OF FALLS UNDER YOUR
JURISDICTION OR IF YOU'VE
LOOKED AT HOW THAT'S GOING TO
IMPACT TRAFFIC BECAUSE I
ALREADY HAVE LIKE SO MANY
PEOPLE THAT KIND OF FLY THROUGH
THOSE ROADS THROUGH THERE SO I
CAN ONLY IMAGINE IT'S GOING TO
ADD SO MUCH MORE SINCE IT WAS
FORMERLY JUST A FIELD.
SURE.
YEAH.
I'M GOING TO ACTUALLY KICK THIS
TO PLANNING MANAGER KELLY TO
SEE IF SHE HAS A RESPONSE FOR
YOU.
I WILL SHARE THAT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THIS
YEAR WE ARE EVEN PROJECT THEY
DO NOT HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE
SAME SITE PLAN PROCESS AS OTHER
APPLICANTS BECAUSE THERE IS
STATE LAND GRANT INSTITUTION
THEY ARE ZONING AND EVERYTHING
THE WE'RE DISCUSSING PRETTY
MUCH AT THIS TABLE IS OPTIONAL
FOR THEM.
>> HOWEVER, WE DO REVIEW THEIR
PROJECTS THROUGH FRIENDLY
AGREEMENT.
>> IT USUALLY IT DEPENDING ON
THE PROJECT, SOMETIMES IT SKIPS
OUR DEPARTMENT AND GOES
STRAIGHT TO INFRASTRUCTURE
CONCERNS.
SO THE TRAFFIC CIRCULATION THAT
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT AND ALSO
THINGS LIKE WATER WASTEWATER
IMPACTS THOSE WOULD ALL BE
REVIEWED AND DISCUSSED BY THE
CITY WITH THE UNIVERSITY AND IT
MIGHT BE ONLINE BUT I DON'T
HAVE A SPECIFIC ADDRESS TO LOOK
UP.
>> I KNOW THE INTERSECTION BUT
I DON'T KNOW THE DECISION AND
SO YOU COULD REACH OUT TO I
BELIEVE IT'S ENGINEERING AT
EIGHT TO GO BIG AND ASK THIS
QUESTION AND THEY COULD TELL
YOU WHY THE TRAFFIC YOU KNOW,
SIGN WAS PUT IN AND THEN BAGGED
AND WHEN SOME OF THE OTHER
CIRCULATION ITEMS HOW THOSE
WERE BEING CONSIDERED FOR THAT
PROJECT.
>> JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY, WHO
REPRESENTS THE UNIVERSITY IN
THOSE CONVERSATIONS?
>> THEY HAVE A SMORGASBORD
OF DEPARTMENT THAT ARE
INTERNAL.
SO I THINK IT MIGHT DEPEND ON
THE PROJECT BUT THEY HAVE
INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT TEAMS AND
I'M NOT SURE TO WHAT EXTENT
THEY USE CONSULTANTS OR NOT
ACTUALLY FOR THAT PARTICULAR
PROJECT.
I'M SORRY YOU DON'T KNOW OUR
PUBLIC SERVICES AREA DOES MUCH
MORE INTERACTION ON YOU THAN
PROJECTS.
OK, YEAH PLANNING I FORGOT TO
DISTINGUISH IN OUR FOR THE JUST
THE SCHOOL.
YEAH I TEND TO DO THAT OK THANK
YOU.
>> NO THANK YOU.
WOULD ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION BEFORE
WE CHECK OUR ONLINE PARTICIPATE
.
>> SEE I TOLD YOU WE WERE
FRIENDLY PLANNING MANAGER KELLY
IS THERE ANYONE ON ZOOME WE
HAVE NO VIRTUAL ATTENDEES THIS
EVENING SO THERE IS NO ONE TO
HEAR FROM.
ALL RIGHT LET'S GO ON TO I WILL
CLOSE A PUBLIC HEARING NOW AND
WE'RE NOW ON TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER SEVEN WHICH IS PUBLIC
HEARING SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
REGULAR MEETING AND ACCORDING
TO THIS NOTE THERE ARE NONE.
IS THAT CORRECT BECAUSE THE
MEETING HAS BEEN CANCELED BUT
THERE ARE NO PROJECTS FOR THE
DECEMBER 17TH MEETING AND WE
INTEND TO CANCEL.
>> I MEAN OK, EXCELLENT ON TWO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS THERE IS NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO I'LL
MOVE NOW TO NINE A AND SO THIS
IS A PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
SECTIONS FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE STAFF PRESENTS
ORDINANCE REVISIONS TO SECTION
FIVE THREE TWO POINT TWO RELATE
IT TO NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE REVISION
ELIMINATES ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
IMPROVEMENTS AND WOULD ALLOW
THE PLANNING MANAGER TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVE
ALTERATIONS THAT DO NOT EXTEND
CLOSER TO LONG LINES DO NOT
CREATE NEW NONCONFORMITY AND
COMPLY WITH ZONING DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS ALTERATIONS INCLUDE
CHANGES INCREASING FLOOR AREA
DWELLING UNITS OR EXTERIOR
BUILDING DIMENSIONS.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND WE WILL START WITH
A STAFF PRESENTATION BY MR.
BARRETT
, OUR ZONING
COORDINATOR.
>> GOOD EVENING JOHN.
ZONING COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR OCTOBER EIGHT
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR I PRESENTED
A PROPOSED TAX AMENDMENT FOR
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WORKING
SESSION.
THE TEXT AMENDMENT IS IN
RESPONSE TO THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS REQUEST ZIBA
REQUESTED THAT CHANGES TO
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO BE MADE THAT WILL
REMOVE THE REQUIREMENT FOR
TZVIA APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN
IMPROVEMENTS FOR NOT CONFORMING
STRUCTURES.
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT WILL
ALLOW ADMINISTRATOR APPROVAL BY
THE PLANNING MANAGER TO APPROVE
AN ALTERATION OR IN ADDITION TO
AN EXISTING NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE THAT DOES NOT EXTEND
CLOSER TO A LOT LINE DOES NOT
CREATE ANY NEW NONCONFORMITY
AND COMPLIES WITH ALL OTHER
ZONING DISTRICT DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS.
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE PROVIDES THE
GENERAL STANDARDS FOR THREE
TYPES OF NONCONFORMITY
NONCONFORMING USES NOT
CONFORMING STRUCTURES AND
NONCONFORMING.
LOTTE'S SECTION FIVE POINT
THIRTY TWO POINT TO NOT
CONFORMING STRUCTURES STATES
NOT CONFORMING STRUCTURES MAY
BE MAINTAINED AND PROVIDES
REGULATIONS ON HOW THEY MAY BE
ALTERED AND ALTERATION IS
DEFINED AS ANY CHANGE IN A
BUILDING THAT RESULT IN
ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA BEING FIT
FOR OCCUPANCY.
GREATER AND GREATER NUMBER
OF DWELLING UNITS OR ROOMING
UNITS OR AN INCREASE IN THE
EXTRA DIMENSIONS OF THE
BUILDING.
CURRENTLY THE PLANNING MANAGER
IS PERMITTED TO APPROVE
ALTERATIONS TO NON-PERFORMING
STRUCTURES IN AN HOUR ONE HOUR
TO HOUR THREE OR FOUR DISTRICT
IF THE ALTERATION COMPLIES WITH
THE REQUIREMENTS OF CHAPTER 55,
ALL OTHER OPERATIONS MUST BE
APPROVED OF THE ZEBA UPON
FINDING THE ALTERATION COMPLIES
AS NEARLY AS PRACTICAL WITH THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE NOTABLY THE
DESIGN DISTRICT DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS OVER THE PAST TEN
YEARS ZIBA HAS APPROVED NEARLY
ALL PETITIONS TO ALTER AND NOT
CONFORMING STRUCTURE SINCE
JANUARY OF 2023.
ALL THESE PETITION TYPES HAVE
BEEN APPROVED BY THE BOARD WITH
THE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL
FEATURES 22 OF THE 22 PETITIONS
WERE APPROVED BY THE TWENTY ONE
OF THEM WERE NOT OUR
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES AND ONLY
ONE WAS A NON RESIDENT PROPERTY
ZIBA RARELY RECEIVES NABOR
CORRESPONDENCE IN OPPOSITION TO
AN ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THESE APPROVALS AND LACK
OF OPPOSITION INDICATE THE
REGULATIONS NO LONGER ALIGN
WITH THE COMMUNITY'S GOALS.
UPDATING THE SEXUAL IN ORDER TO
INCREASE DENSITY IN EXISTING
DEVELOPMENTS PROVIDE MORE
HOUSING OPTIONS AND AFFORDABLE
CHOICES AND ENABLE MORE
SUSTAINABLE FORMS
OF DEVELOPMENT.
THE APPLICATION PROCESS PUBLIC
RESOURCES AND FEES INVOLVED
UNDER THE PRESENT RULES ARE
ALSO SUBSTANTIAL AND ARE
PERHAPS INEFFICIENT USE OF TIME
AND RESOURCES FOR ZIBA MEMBERS,
STAFF AND APPLICANTS.
CURRENTLY PARAGRAPH B
OF SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY
TWO POINT TO LIMITS
ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY TO
ALTERATIONS FOR SINGLE FAMILY
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES IN OUR
ONE HOUR TO AN HOUR THREE IN
OUR FOUR DISTRICTS THEY MUST
MEET THESE SAPOCHNIK VARIANTS
OF THE ZONING DISTRICT ANY
OTHER TYPES OF NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES SUCH AS TO FAMILY
DWELLINGS, MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLINGS OR NON RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS REQUIRE APPROVAL BY
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
UPON THE FINDING OF UPON THE
FINDING THAT THE ALTERATION
COMPLIES AS NEARLY AS
PRACTICABLE WITH THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER
AND WILL NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT ON NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
.
THIS PROPOSAL WOULD AMEND
PARAGRAPH B OF THAT SECTION TO
PROVIDE A LIST OF STANDARDS FOR
PLANNING MANAGER APPROVAL
OF ALTERATION FOR ANY
NON-PERFORMING RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE WHICH EQUALS BUT DOES
NOT EXCEED EXISTING
NONCONFORMING SETBACKS.
THE PROPOSED CHANGES EXTEND
ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVALS TO TWO
FAMILY AND MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLINGS AND NO LONGER REQUIRE
THE OPERATION TO COMPLY WITH
THE SET BACK STANDARDS.
THE AMENDMENT WILL ALLOW FOR
NEW HABITABLE SPACE WHICH MAY
ONLY OCCUR IN BASEMENTS AND
ATTICS TO BE UTILIZED AND NO
LONGER REQUIRE ZIBA APPROVAL
HEADINGS IN THE STAFF REPORT
ARE ALSO PROPOSED TO SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TO
TO HELP CLEARLY SEPARATE THE
PROCEDURES FOR ON RESIDENTIAL
AND RESIDENTIAL NON-PERFORMING
STRUCTURES AFFECTED PARCELS AT
THE OCTOBER EIGHT TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR PLANNING COMMISSION
WORKING SESSION STAFF WAS
REQUESTED TO PROVIDE
INFORMATION REGARDING THE
NUMBER OF NONCONFORMING
RESIDENTIAL PARCELS IN THE
CITY.
A GEOSPATIAL REVIEW FOUND
APPROXIMATELY FIVE THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED AND THIRTY FIVE
PARCELS EITHER ARE ONE OR TWO
ARE THREE AND ARE FOUR OF THESE
APPROXIMATELY SEVENTY NINE
PERCENT ARE NON-PERFORMING.
THIS MEANS THAT THERE IS A HIGH
LIKELIHOOD OF RESIDENTIAL
PROJECTS WHICH WOULD REQUIRE
ZEBA APPROVAL OR ALTERATIONS
UNDER THE CURRENT ZONING RULES
AND WHICH WOULD CONVERSELY
RECEIVE RELIEF IF THE PRESENT
PROPOSAL WERE TO BE ADOPTED THE
TAX MOMENT WOULD POTENTIALLY
REDUCE PETITIONS COMING BEFORE
THE ZIEBA AND THE TIMELINE
NECESSARY FOR RESIDENTIAL
PROJECT APPROVAL FOR PROPERTY
OWNERS.
THE TABLE ON PAGE THREE OF THIS
REPORT ALSO PROVIDES THE NUMBER
OF NON-PERFORMING LOANS BY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT IN THE
CITY.
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO IS PRESENTED ON PAGE
FOUR AND COMPLETE AND THE
COMPLETE ORDINANCES ATTACH IN
THE TRACK CHANGES AS WELL AS
ACCEPTED THE CHANGES VERSION ON
PAGE FIVE OF THE STAFF REPORT
NOTE THAT THE BLACK TEXT IS THE
UNALTERED LANGUAGE PROPOSED
CHANGES PRESENTED AT THE AFTER
OCTOBER EIGHT TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR WORKING SESSION ARE IN
READ AND SUBSEQUENTLY THE
REVISED LANGUAGE IS IN BLUE
REVISIONS REFLECT REQUESTED
CHANGES AND CLARIFICATIONS TO
PART B AND ITEMS ONE THROUGH
FOUR SPECIFICALLY LANGUAGE WAS
ADDED TO CLARIFY THAT THE
PROPOSED TAX AMENDMENT WOULD
ONLY APPLY TO RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURES AND NOT TO
COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES.
WHILE STAFF WERE REQUESTED TO
CONSIDER BRINGING COMMERCIAL
STRUCTURES INTO THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENT, IT WAS DETERMINED
THAT THE COMPLEXITY INVOLVED
WOULD MERIT A NEW EFFORT.
COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES BRING THE
CONVERSATION DISTRICT BUFFERS
POSSIBLE SITE PLAN PROCEDURES
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ISSUES SUCH
AS STORMWATER IMPACTS.
>> IF YOU WOULD TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS I'M
GOING TO SHARE A POWERPOINT
PRESENTATION
AN ALTERATION TO
NOT PERFORMANCE STRUCTURE TEXT
AMENDMENT PROPOSAL ALLOW AN
ALTERATION TO A NON CONFORMING
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE IF THE
NONCONFORMITY IS NOT EXTENDED
OR EXPANDED HISTORY OF THE ITEM
TZVIA MEMBERS WERE REQUESTED
THAT THE AMENDMENT TO ADDRESS
HIGH VOLUME OF PETITIONS IN
THIS CATEGORY WHICH HAVE BEEN
APPROVED ONE OR TWO PER MONTH A
SHIFT IN THE PLANNING
PHILOSOPHY OF NOT AND DENSITY
AND IMPORTANCE OF HOUSING
AVAILABILITY ALTERATIONS HAVE
ALTERATIONS HAVE A LOW
THRESHOLD AND FINDINGS OF FACT.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WORKING
SESSION ON TWO TENANT 2024.
I'VE ALREADY GONE OVER THIS IN
THE STAFF REPORT AND THIS SLIDE
SO WE'LL JUST SKIP THAT ONE AND
GOALS OF THE AMENDMENT TO MAKE
THE APPLICATION PROCESS SIMPLER
AND LOWER COSTS MORE EFFICIENT
USE OF PUBLIC RESOURCES MATCH
COMMUNITY VALUES REGARDING
NON-PERFORMING STRUCTURES
EXAMPLES OF THE SENSE OF THE
STANDARD WHAT IT IS IT'S
CONVERTING NON HABITABLE SPACE
TO HAVE LITTLE SPACE OR ADDING
A NEW UNIT NO EXPANSION OF THE
BUILDING S X OR HEIGHT EXAMPLE
ADDING NEW BEDROOMS IN THE
BASEMENT TO AN EXISTING
APARTMENT ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
ANOTHER EXAMPLE WOULD BE ADDING
ADDITIONAL DWELLING UNIT TO A
HOME ALREADY NON-PERFORMING BY
LOT AREA WITH OR SET BACK SOME
OF THE EXAMPLES THAT I'VE HAD
THIS ONE ON TEN THIRTY THREE
PACARD THE PROPERTY WAS ZONED
OUT FOR SEE IT DIDN'T MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS FOR LOT AREA
OF EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET WIDTH OF SIXTY SIDE
SETBACKS.
CURRENTLY THE UDC REQUIRES NEW
HABBAL SPACE IN THE
NONPERFORMING PROPERTY REQUIRES
ZEBB APPROVAL.
THIS WAS THE EXISTING BASEMENT
AND THE APPLICANT WAS ADDING
NEW HABITABLE SPACE TO THE
BASEMENT AND SO THIS WOULD NO
LONGER THIS PROPOSED TAX
BENEFIT WOULD BE REQUIRED.
THAT WAS JUST THIS IS JUST A
PHOTO OF THAT EXISTING PROPERTY
PROPOSAL OF WHAT IT WOULD LOOK
LIKE AFTER THE CONSTRUCTION
.
HERE'S AN EXAMPLE OF PREVIOUS
APPLICATION THAT WE HAD AS YOU
SEE THIS PROPERTY IS ZONED R1 D
OUR WINDY DISTRICT REQUIRES A
THREE FOOT SIDE SO THAT THE
RESIDENCE WAS CURRENTLY AT TWO
FEET SEVEN INCHES FROM THE SIDE
LOT LINE.
THE OWNER CAME TO THE CITY AND
REQUESTED AN ADDITION AS YOU
CAN SEE IN A HATCHET AREA THAT
THEY WANTED TO CONTINUE THE
NONPERFORMANCE ALONG THE SAME
EXISTING NONCONFORMING SET BACK
AT TWO FEET SEVEN INCHES
CURRENTLY SECTION FIVE POINT
THIRTY TWO POINT TO REQUIRE
TZVIA APPROVAL FOR THIS TYPE
OF PROPOSED ADDITION TO A NON
CONFORMING HOUSE.
THE PROPOSED TAX AMENDMENT
WOULD ALLOW STAFF TO APPROVE
THIS RESIDENTIAL BUILDING AND
BUY A BUILDING PERMIT AND
BYPASS THE ZIBA.
>> THIS IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE
OF AN ADDITION TO A
NONCONFORMING HOUSE.
THIS IS THAT TWO OR THREE NORTH
STATE STREET THEY WERE GOING TO
DO IN ADDITION TO THE REAR
OF ONE STOREY ADDITION IN THE
BACK YOU CAN SEE THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONS, THE PROPERTY IS NOT
CONFORMING FOR A LOT AREA A LOT
WITH AND SETBACKS PRIOR TO THE
RENOVATION THE HOUSE HAD FOUR
UNITS AND AFTER IS GOING TO
HAVE THREE UNITS.
THIS WAS APPROVED ALREADY BY
THE ZIEBA AND THE DC JUST
BECAUSE THEY WANTED TO DO A ONE
STORY ADDITION AS YOU CAN SEE
BY THE RED ARROW AND I'M
CIRCLING THAT ADDITION TO THE
BACK OF THIS BUILDING IT DIDN'T
ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE
SETBACKS IN THE SIDE OF THE
REAR.
IT WAS STRAIGHT UP THE EXISTING
FOOTPRINT AND THIS IS CURRENTLY
REQUIRES ZIBA APPROVAL AND THIS
AMENDMENT TONIGHT BEFORE YOU
WOULD NOT REQUIRES EPA APPROVAL
BECAUSE IT'S NOT EXPANDING THE
NONCONFORMITY THAT IT CURRENTLY
EXISTS.
THIS IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF AN
ADDITION THAT WE'VE HAD.
THIS ONE WAS THAT THREE OR FIVE
WEEKS STREET THIS PROPERTY IS
NOT FOR A LOT AREA AND THE
FRONT SETBACKS ALONG NORTH
FIFTH AND BEAT STREET THE
APPLICANT CAME TO ME AND SAID
WE WOULD LIKE TO DO A TWO STORY
ADDITION TO THIS DUPLEX IN EACH
STORY WE'LL HAVE A BATHROOM SO
YOU WANT A TWO STORY ADDITION
WITH TWO FLOORS THE BATHROOM ON
EACH FLOOR THE PROPOSED
ADDITION DIDN'T GO ANY ENCROACH
CLOSER TO BAEK STREET THAN THE
EXISTING FRONT FACADE.
BUT SINCE THEY WERE IT DIDN'T
MEET THE SETBACKS ALREADY.
AND THEN THIS HIGHLIGHTED
EDITION THEY NEEDED TO GO TO
ZIBA FOR APPROVAL.
THEY WEREN'T EXPANDING THE
NONCONFORMITY.
THEY WERE GOING ALONG WITH THE
CURRENT NON-PERFORMING
SITUATION.
BUT IT STILL REQUIRES THE
APPROVAL AND THIS IS JUST A
FLOOR PLAN OF THAT PROPOSED
ADDITION.
THIS WAS ANOTHER ONE ON FAIR
OAKS PARKWAY WHERE THE ENTIRE
PROPERTY THE ENTIRE HOUSE
EXCUSE ME IT WAS OUTSIDE OF THE
FOOTPRINT.
THEY HAD A VERY SMALL
IT WAS IN THE REAR YARD.
FOOTPRINT.
THEY WERE IT WAS NOT CONFORMING
IT WAS IN THE REAR YARD.
FOR THE REAR YARD STEP BACK.
THEY WERE IT WAS NOT CONFORMING
IT DIDN'T MEET THE 40 FOOT REAR
FOR THE REAR YARD STEP BACK.
YARD REQUIREMENT.
IT DIDN'T MEET THE 40 FOOT REAR
THEY WANTED TO DO A SUNROOM TO
YARD REQUIREMENT.
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE PROPERTY
THEY WANTED TO DO A SUNROOM TO
THAT REQUIRED APPROVAL.
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE PROPERTY
THE SUNROOM DIDN'T ENCROACH
THAT REQUIRED APPROVAL.
CLOSER TO THE REAR STEP BACK
THE SUNROOM DIDN'T ENCROACH
THAN THE EXISTING HOUSE BUT IT
CLOSER TO THE REAR STEP BACK
REQUIRES THE APPROVAL AND THIS
THAN THE EXISTING HOUSE BUT IT
AGAIN THIS TAX AMENDMENT WOULD
REQUIRES THE APPROVAL AND THIS
BYPASS THE EPA FOR THAT
AGAIN THIS TAX AMENDMENT WOULD
REQUIREMENT
.
THIS WAS THIS IS IN YOUR STAFF
REPORT AND I JUST WENT OVER
THIS THIS IS THE REQUESTED
INFORMATION AND IT GIVES ALL
THE DETAILS OF OUR CURRENT
SITUATION WITH ALL THE AH ONE
HOUR TO HOUR THREE AND A HALF
FOUR PROPERTIES IN THE CITY.
HOW MANY THERE ARE TOTAL HOW
MANY ARE NONCONFORMING AND THE
PERCENTAGE OF NON CONFORMING
PARCELS PER DISTRICT.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED TAX
AMENDMENT WITH THE TRACK
CHANGES THE OFFICIAL LANGUAGE
OR THE ORDINANCE LANGUAGES
INCLUDING YOUR STAFF MEMO IN
THE PACKET THE PROPOSED
APPLICATION IS TO BE TO APPLY
ONLY TO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
AND NO CHANGE PROPOSED TO
STANDARD OR FINE STANDARDS OR
FINDINGS REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY
CONCLUSION STAFFORD RECOMMENDS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL OF THE TEXT AMENDMENT
AS PROPOSED BY THE ZIBA TEXT
AMENDMENT WILL ALLOW
ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL
OF PERMITS AND STREAMLINE THE
PROCESS FOR HOMEOWNERS AND
DEVELOPERS.
>> I CAN TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME
.
I THINK WE GO TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING FIRST AND THEN WE'LL
HAVE TIME FOR QUESTIONS IF
THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT THAN TZVIA
BUT THAT'S RIGHT.
>> SORRY.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE TO OUR PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS PETITION.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
WHO ARE PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS IF WE'VE ACQUIRED
ANY TO SPEAK REMOTELY.
>> PRESS STAR NINE ON PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IN
ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS DIAL ONE
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
OUR MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF YOU ARE
PARTICIPATING ASSUME YOU WILL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE THAT YOU ARE IN A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ON THIS
PETITION
?
ALL RIGHT, WE ACQUIRE ANY ZOOME
PARTICIPANTS WE DID NOT WITH
THAT I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
>> I WILL NOW READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION AND THEN WE WILL GO INTO
OUR DISCUSSION.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT THREE
TWO POINT TO NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL FOR
ADDITIONS TO NONCOM WARMING
BUILDINGS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICTS AS PROPOSED MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION WHO WOULD
LIKE TO KICK US OFF
COMMISSIONER MILLS?
>> I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
AM GETTING DEFINITIONS RIGHT
OF A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
AND NONCONFORMING A LOT.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
UNDERSTAND BUT BASED ON UDC A
NON CONFORMING LOT IS ONE THAT
DOESN'T MEET THE MINIMUM AREA
AND WITH WHICH WE KNOW.
AND SO YOUR TABLE THAT SHOWED
ALL THE NONCONFORMISTS IS THAT
A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
DOESN'T HAVE I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT I UNDERSTAND THIS
RIGHT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE ON A
NON CONFORM IF IF THERE'S A NON
CONFORMING LOT THAT'S NOT
CONFORMING BECAUSE OF AREA
AUTOMATICALLY THE STRUCTURE AND
IT BECOMES NON CONFORMING.
IS THAT RIGHT?
BECAUSE THE NON CONFIRMING
STRUCTURE IS ERIA HEIGHT OR
SETBACKS.
>> SO THE AREA IS THE AREA THAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE AREA
OF THE LOT OR THE AREA OF THE
BUILDING AREA OF THE LAW.
>> OK, SO AUTOMATICALLY IF
YOU'RE ON IF YOU'RE ON IF
YOU'RE ANY KIND OF STRUCTURE ON
A NON CONFORMING LOT THAT IS
NONCONFORMING BECAUSE OF THE
AREA YOU ARE NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
>> I HAVE NOT SEEN A STRUCTURE
THAT WAS GENERALLY GENERALLY
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE
NON-PERFORMING PERFORMING THAT
LOTS NOT OK BUT IT'S POSSIBLE
THAT WE HAVE A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE ON A CONFORMING LOT.
IT'S JUST SIPEK CHANGED OVER
TIME.
RIGHT?
AND SO IT'S NONCONFORMING
BECAUSE OF THE SETBACKS.
>> IT'S NOT POSSIBLE.
OK, I JUST WANT TO MAKE BECAUSE
THE TABLE WAS ABOUT
NONCONFORMING LOTS AND WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
I JUST WANNA MAKE SURE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT NOT CONFIRMING
STRUCTURE SO MOST OF THEM WILL
APPLY IN THOSE DISTRICTS.
>> CORRECT.
BECAUSE WE JUST HAVE TONS
OF NONCONFORMING LOTS IN THOSE
DISTRICTS.
IT COULD ALSO APPLY IN OTHER
AREAS COULD BE NONCONFORMING
FOR SOME OTHER REASON IN
ANOTHER DISTRICT YOU CAN HAVE A
NON CONFORMING LOT AND THEN IF
YOU ARE GOING TO DO IT IN
ADDITION TO A STRUCTURE AND IT
MEETS ALL THE REQUIREMENTS
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE, YOU
WON'T NEED TO GO TO ZIBA SAY
THAT ONE MORE TIME.
>> SO IF YOU HAVE ANY TYPE
OF PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION
PROJECT YEAH.
AND IT AND IT MEETS ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE YOU CAN GET YOUR PROJECT
APPROVED BY A BUILDING PERMIT
VIA STAFF APPROVAL.
>> RIGHT BECAUSE THERE'S A
SECTION THAT EFFECTIVELY SAYS
DONNA NONCONFORMING YOU CAN
HAVE THE SINGLE FAMILY HOME AND
YOU FOLLOW THESE SETBACKS OK
GOT IT.
SO THAT'S BUT THAT'S FOR
EFFECTIVELY GREENFIELD
DEVELOPMENT OR TEARDOWN
DEVELOPMENT NOT FOR ALTERATIONS
.
>> I'M NOT CLEAR WHAT YOU MEAN
BY GREENFIELD BUT IT MEANS
THERE'S AN EMPTY LOT THAT I
MEAN WE DON'T HAVE VERY MANY
EMPTY LOTS THAT HAVE NEVER BEEN
DEVELOPED.
WE HAVE A FEW MONTHS TO SAY WE
HAVE A OUR FORESE PROPERTY.
YEAH.
THAT DOESN'T MEET THE LOT AREA.
YEAH, THE LOT THE DISTRICT
REQUIRES EIGHT THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET BUT LET'S
JUST SAY IT'S EIGHT THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET BY RIGHT.
YOU CAN BUILD A SINGLE FAMILY
RIGHT AND COMPLY WITH THE R ONE
SEEDS XACTLY YEP.
OK BECAUSE THE CODE ALLOWS YOU
TO DEFAULT OUR FORESE TO OUR
ONE C AND OUR TO A TO OUR ONE
BUT IF YOU HAVE JUST TO BE
CLEAR IF YOU HAVE AN EXISTING
STRUCTURE THAT YOU'RE PLANNING
ON ALTERING AND THAT IS ADDING
ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA LIVABLE
FLOOR AREA WHICH COULD JUST
MEAN YOU DON'T MAKE ANY
EXTERIOR MODIFICATION AND
THAT'S JUST IN THE BASEMENT
RIGHT.
>> YOU'RE ON AN HOUR FOR C NOT
NOT CONFORMING A LOT THAT THAT
IS NOW AN ALTERATION WHERE THIS
RULE COMES INTO PLAY LIKE THE
EDITS THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
.
>> WE'LL ADDRESS THAT IF IT HAS
MORE THAN ONE UNIT AND THAT
STRUCTURE IF IT'S OK FOR UNITS
THAT IF IT HAS MULTIPLE UNITS
IN THE R HORSEY PROPERTY AND
IT'S NOT CONFORMING STRUCTURE
NON-PERFORMING LOT AND YOU WANT
TO ADD NEW LITTLE SPACE IN THE
BASEMENT OR THE ATTIC
REGARDLESS OR JUST IN THE IN
THE BASEMENT OR ATTIC USUALLY
YOU HAVE TO GO ZIBA TO GET
ALTERATION WITHOUT FORMAL
STRUCTURE APPROVAL BECAUSE
YOU'RE OUR FORESE PROPERTY YOU
HAVE MULTIPLE UNITS AND YOU'RE
ADDING NEW HAVE A FLOOR AREA.
THAT NEW HATABLE FLOOR AREA
DOESN'T APPLY TO SINGLE FAMILY
GOT IT ONLY APPLIES TO R FOR
SEEDBOX.
OK SO JUST GOING BACK TO WHERE
WE STARTED IT I'M GOING TO
REPEAT THE CLARIFICATION THAT I
NEEDED WHICH IS BEING A NON
CONFORMING LOT BEING ON A NON
CONFORMING A STRUCTURE ON A NON
CONFORMING LOT THAT IS NOT
CONFORMING BECAUSE OF AREA NOT
BECAUSE OF WIDTH BUT BECAUSE
OF AREA THAT MAKES YOU A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
>> NOT NECESSARILY NO.
YOU CAN YOU CAN YOU CAN MEET
THIS YOU CAN STILL MEET THE
DISTRICT S.
>> S BUT THIS IS WHERE A NON
UNDERSTANDING THE DEFINITION
AND SO THE DEFINITION OF A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURES THAT IT'S
CONFORM BECAUSE IT DOESN'T MEET
AREA SET BACK OR HEIGHT IT'S
NOT IN THE B IT CAN BE ONE
OF OR DOESN'T HAVE TO BE ALL
BUT BUT THE I I GO YEAH AGAIN
I'M CONFUSED BECAUSE I THOUGHT
THAT THE AREA WAS ASSOCIATED
WITH THE LOT NOT THE AREA
WASN'T ASSOCIATED WITH THE
STRUCTURE IS THIS THIS MAKES
SENSE WHAT YOU ARE ASKING FOR
CLARIFICATION ON OK IT'S JUST
THE AREA AND AND BECAUSE A LOT
IN STRUCTURE THAT I'M CONFUSED
IF YOU IF I HAVE A LOT THAT IS
THAT HAS THE IF I HAVE A NON
CONFORMING LOT AND THE REASON
THAT A LOT IS NOT CONFORMING IS
BECAUSE OF THE AREA THE
STRUCTURE IT HMM.
>> I'M IMAGINING A VENN DIAGRAM
SORRY WHERE A LOT OF THE THINGS
LIKE SOME OF THE VAN DIAGRAM
OF WHAT'S WHAT'S NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE IS BECAUSE IT'S ON A
ON ON A LOT A NON CONFORMING
LOT THAT'S NOT CONFORMING
BECAUSE OF AREA WHAT'S THE
PROPERTY ZONE AND FOR EXAMPLE
IF IT'S ZONED IF SINGLE FAMILY
AND IT'S R1 C A LOT AND IT
REQUIRES SEVENTY TWO HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET AT SIXTY EIGHT
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET BUT IF YOU
WANT YOU WANT TO DO IN ADDITION
TO THE EXISTING HOME AND MEETS
ALL THE REQUIREMENTS OF CHAPTER
55 YOU CAN DO THAT BY A
BUILDING PERMIT IF IT'S R
FORCING A LOT AND IT'S NOT
PERFORMING FOR LOT WITH LOT
AREA AND YOU WANT TO DO AN
EXPANSION YOU HAVE TO COME TO
ZIBA FOR APPROVAL.
>> OK, NOW THAT I KNOW WHERE
YOU'RE GOING GET APOLOGIZE AND
I'M REALLY NOT TRYING TO BE
DIFFICULT BUT IT'S TRYING TO
HELP ME PUT COMMISSIONER ADAMS
LIKE GETTING IN MY HEAD.
CAN YOU REPEAT WHAT YOU JUST
SAID AGAIN SO YOU ASKED ME WHAT
IS WHAT IS YOUR ZONE RIGHT.
>> OK, AND ONE DOES REQUIRE
VARIANCE AND ONE DOESN'T AND
THIS IS THE CRUX OF IT.
I'M TRYING TO GET AT THE
DEFINITION THE DEFINITION
OF NONCONFORMING LOT NOT ALL
NON CONFIRMING STRUCTURES, NOT
ALL NON CONFIRMING STRUCTURES
ARE REQUIRING VARIANCE BUT I'M
TRYING TO GET UNDERSTAND THE
YEAH.
SO CAN YOU REPEAT WHAT YOU SAID
ABOUT THE ZONING DISTRICT?
WHICH ONES NEED YOU WHEN I SAID
YEAH
SO IF YOU WELL THIS IS FOR
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES BUT
FOR NOT CONFORMING NO FORMAL
STRUCTURE NOT FOR ME COMPLETELY
SEPARATE SO WE'RE NOT MAKING
ANY CHANGES OR NOT FORMING LOTS
AND I THINK THIS IS WHY I'M
CONFUSED BECAUSE THE TABLE THAT
YOU SHOWED WAS ABOUT
NONCONFORMING LOTS.
WELL, THAT'S JUST BECAUSE THAT
WAS THE INFORMATION THAT WAS
REQUESTED THAT THIS
ORGANIZATION WE SUPPLY THAT
INFORMATION IT WAS TALKING
ABOUT IT WAS A IT WAS JUST A
GENERALITY ABOUT HOW MANY ME
LOTS DO WE HAVE IN THE CITY?
BUT IF YOU HAVE A
NON-PERFORMING LOT IT DOESN'T
NECESSARILY MEAN YOU IF IF YOU
CAN STILL MEET ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE YOU CAN YOU DON'T HAVE TO
HAVE ZIBA UNLESS YOU'RE IN OUR
FORESE LOT.
I'M A RECOGNIZED COMMISSIONER
NORTEN FOR A MOMENT.
I THINK THE POINT IS YOU CAN
HAVE A CONFORMING STRUCTURE,
YOU CAN HAVE A CONFORMING
STRUCTURE ON A NON CONFORMING.
THAT'S CORRECT BECAUSE THE NON
DEFINITION NONCONFORMING LOT
ALLOWS FOR FOR CERTAIN KINDS
OF STRUCTURES SINGLE FAMILY
STRUCTURES SO THAT'S WHY
THEY'RE SEPARATE.
SO THE DATA THE TABLE WAS
SHOWING WE HAVE GOBS
OF NONCONFORMING LOTS WHICH
REALLY SUGGESTS WE NEED TO
CHANGE THE ZONING BUT THAT'S A
SEPARATE ISSUE.
THIS IS JUST DEALING WITH IF
YOU HAVE A STRUCTURE THAT YOU
WANT TO SOMEHOW CHANGE AND IT
COULD BE ON A NON CONFORMING
LOT DOESN'T MATTER AS LONG AS
YOU'RE STILL COMPLYING WITH
WHAT YOU COULD DO OTHERWISE
CORRECT UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS
YOU CAN GET APPROVAL.
SO REALLY THE QUESTION IS
BOILING DOWN TO WHO WHO'S GOING
TO APPROVE IT THE ZIBA OR THE
STAFF ADMINISTRATOR
ADMINISTRATOR.
CORRECT.
AND THIS SHIFT IS JUST TRYING
TO MAKE IT SO THAT MORE
OF THESE KINDS OF CHANGES COULD
BE MADE DIRECTLY BY THE STAFF
ADMINISTRATOR.
>> OH YES.
BUT AGAIN, THIS IS NOT ACTUALLY
IN THE IN SECTION.
IT'S NOT IN THE ALTERATION
SECTION.
I'M THE DEFINITION
OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE THAT
SAYS AREA.
AND SO WHAT I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND IS ARE WE TALKING
ABOUT TWO DIFFERENT KINDS
OF AREAS?
OK, SO WE'RE IN A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT LIKE LOT
AREA COVERAGE.
NO, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
BUILDING A BUILDING AREA
FOOTPRINT BUILDING AREA.
GOT IT.
OK, SO AND THAT AND THE
DEFINITION OF NOT CLEAR BUT SO
THAT'S WHY THAT'S WHY THE
QUESTION IS AND PARTICULARLY
BECAUSE I KNOW WE ASKED FOR IT
WE GOT A LOT OF NONCONFORMING
THAT'S WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NOT
CONFIRMING STRUCTURES AND I
KNOW THAT KIND OF WORK HAND IN
HAND THOUGH, RIGHT.
IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT, THERE'S
SO MANY NON-PERFORMING LOTS
THAT THERE'S BOUND TO BE A
NUMBER OF STRUCTURES THAT DON'T
COMPLY WITH THE DISTRICT
SETBACKS BECAUSE THE FLATS
DON'T COMPLY WITH A LOT WITH A
LOT AREA.
SURE.
ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO COMPLY
WITH THE SET BACK REQUIREMENTS
AND ALL THE DIMENSIONS OWNERS
OF THE DISTRICT IF YOUR LOT IS
SO SMALL AND IT DOESN'T COMPLY
.
>> GOT IT.
OK, NOW THAT I KNOW THAT THIS
IS NOT NECESSARY THIS IS NOT
THIS IS JUST THE STRUCTURES
PART I NOW CAN UNDERSTAND I'M
READY FOR THE CONVERSATION
THAT'S TO COME AND I'M THINKING
THAT PERSONALLY I'M THINKING
THAT MAYBE WE NEED TO ADD
THINKING ABOUT THE DEFINITE
DIFFERENTIATING THE KINDS
OF AREAS IN OUR DEFINITIONS
BECAUSE IT'S REAL UNCLEAR WHAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT, WHAT AREA
ONE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
BUILDING FOOTPRINT BECAUSE WE
DON'T CALL IT AREA IN THE
TABLES.
>> I THINK I'LL GO BACK AND
DOUBLE CHECK THAT BUT LIKE WE
BOTH OF THEM SAY AREA AND WE'RE
NOT CLEAR ABOUT WHAT THAT IS.
SO I'M GOOD NOW THANK YOU FOR
ANSWERING MY QUESTIONS AND NOW
I'M LIKE I THAT'S JUST MAKING
SURE THAT I HAVE THE RIGHT
THING BECAUSE I THINK WE WANT
TO MAKE SURE THE WHOLE PURPOSE
OF THIS IS TO NOT SEND AS MANY
THINGS FOR VARIANCES SINCE I
WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT WHAT
HOW WE DEFINE HOW WE WERE
DEFINING THINGS WASN'T PART
OF THE PROBLEM.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S YOU'RE
GOOD.
>> ALL RIGHT COMMISSIONER ADAMS
SO MR. BROWN, I JUST MAYBE
MAYBE ANOTHER WAY OF FRAMING UP
THE DISCUSSION JUST A MOMENT
AGO WOULD BE TO ASK A QUESTION
AND MAYBE GET A LITTLE MORE
BACKGROUND SO THE
CODE CURRENTLY ALLOWS THE
PLANNING MANAGER TO BYPASS THE
ZIBA FOR AN R ONE A SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING AND ALTERATION
WITH NONCONFORMING SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING IN R ONE OR TWO
OR THREE ARE FOR DISTRICT AND I
UNDERSTOOD THE PURPOSE OF THIS
WAS TO EXPAND THAT TO YOU KNOW
,MULTIFAMILY TO YOU KNOW, TO
FAMILY OR MULTIFAMILY
STRUCTURES AND GET MORE OF THIS
WORK THAT IS MOSTLY BEING
APPROVED WITHOUT DISCUSSION OFF
THE ZORBA'S DOCKET SHEET.
>> CORRECT.
IF I WERE DOING THAT WE AND
GIVEN THE WAY THE CURRENT
EXCEPTIONS WERE TO THE CURRENT
SUCH EXCEPTION STATES THAT THE
PLANNING MANAGER MAKES A
DETERMINATION THAT IT CONFORMS
THE ALTERATION CONFORMS TO ALL
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS
CHAPTER RIGHT.
>> AND THEN IT'S ELIGIBLE
CHECKS THE BOXES THAT IT'S IN
OUR ONE HOUR TWO HOUR THREE OR
FOUR DISTRICT AND A SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING AND IT'S AN
ALTERATION THEN IT CAN IT CAN
BYPASS MY QUESTION OR MAYBE
WHERE I GOT CONFUSED IS THE
PROPOSED LANGUAGE EXPANDS THE
EXCEPTION BUT THEN ADDS MORE
REQUIREMENTS.
IT TAKES THAT LANGUAGE
OF CONFORMS TO ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER.
>> THEN IT IMPACTS THEM INTO
LIKE FOUR THINGS ONE, TWO,
THREE, FOUR.
>> AND WHEN I WAS READING THE
ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR I THOUGHT
TO MYSELF WELL THAT'S MORE
THAT'S MORE EXACTING AND IN THE
CASE OF , YOU KNOW, SOMETHING
THAT GETS CLOSER TO A LOT LINE
,IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
SOMETHING THAT I CARE IF
SOMETHING GETS CLOSER TO A LOT
LINE WITHOUT TRIPPING OVER A
SETBACK OR CAUSING SOME OTHER
ON CONFORMITY, THEN I WOULDN'T
WANT TO NECESSARILY BE
SUBJECTED TO HIGHER SCRUTINY
BECAUSE IT'S NOT CREATING A NEW
NON CONFORMANCE RIGHT THAT THE
NON CONFORMANCE IS STAYING THE
SAME.
THERE HASN'T BEEN A NEW ONE
CREATED AND THAT'S REALLY WHAT
CURRENT CODE FOCUSES ON.
IT FOCUSES ON DOES THE
ALTERATION CONFORM TO ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER IF
DOESN'T THEN MY UNDERSTANDING
IS THAT UNDER OUR DEFAULT SET
OF RULES IT WOULD GO IN AS A
VARIANCE.
IT WOULD NOT BE AN ALTERATION
TO A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
IT WOULD BE I'M TRYING TO
ENCROACH ON A SETBACK IN WHICH
CASE I NEED A VARIANCE.
SO IF I WERE TRYING TO EXPAND
THIS EXCEPTION WHAT I WOULD DO
IS SAY INSTEAD OF R ONE R TO
OUR THREE, OUR FOUR AND SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLINGS I WOULD SAY
MORE OR LESS ANYTHING AND OR
ANY RESIDENTIAL ANY RESIDENTIAL
ALTERATION IS SOMETHING THAT
THE PLANNING MANAGER CAN
APPROVE PROVIDED IT CONFORMS TO
ALL THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS
CHAPTER.
THAT'S A VERY SIMPLE AND
STRAIGHTFORWARD WAY
OF EXPANDING THE EXCEPTION
WITHOUT CREATING NEW LISTS AND
OTHER THINGS.
SO MY QUESTION HAS VERY LONG
WINDED MY QUESTION IS THERE'S A
THERE IS A RATIONALE BEHIND THE
REASON IT'S WORD THE WAY THAT
IT IS.
AND BEFORE I SAY LET'S GO BACK
TO THE DRAWING BOARD TO SIMPLER
WHAT AM I MISSING ABOUT THE WAY
THAT IT'S DONE ON PAGE AND
AFTER OUR BRIEF DISCUSSION
BEFORE THE MEETING STARTED, I
THOUGHT ABOUT IT AND IF YOU
LOOK AT THAT LAST SENTENCE THAT
WAS BEING QUESTIONED A LITTLE
BIT
IS THE OTHERWISE THE
ALTERATION REQUIRED VARIANCE
APPROVAL IN ALL FOUR OF THOSE
BULLET POINTS IF YOU DON'T MEET
ANY ONE OF THOSE IT DOES
REQUIRE A VARIANCE.
SO THE STATEMENT IS TRUE AND WE
CAN GO FOR IT THROUGH EACH ONE.
THE AUTHORIZATION DOES NOT
EXTEND CLOSER TO THE LINE THAT
ANY PART OF THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
SO IF WE LOOK AT THE EXAMPLE ON
OUR SCREEN YOU HAVE A NON
CONFORMING HOUSE THAT DOESN'T
MEET THE RNC DISTRICT SETBACKS
CORRECT OR EXCUSE ME THE R ONE
THE R&D DISTRICT REQUIRES A
THREE FOOT SIDE YARD SETBACK.
THE EXISTING HOUSE IS AT TWO
FEET SEVEN INCHES.
IT'S FIVE INCHES ENCROACHING
INTO THAT THREE FOOT STEP BACK
.
THE APPLICANTS WANT TO DO AN
ADDITION AND CONTINUE ALONG
THAT SAME EXISTING PLAN OF TWO
FEET SEVEN INCHES THAT REQUIRES
AN ALTERATION OR NOT
PERFORMANCE STRUCTURE.
WE'RE GOING TO KNOW WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO DO IS ELIMINATE THE
ALTERATION TO NOT CONFORMING
STRUCTURE STEP ALL TOGETHER AND
ALL THE OTHER ONE ARE TWO OR
THREE FOUR DISTRICTS.
IF THIS PROPOSED ADDITION WAS
INSET FIVE INCHES AND THREE
FEET, THEY COULD GET IT
APPROVED BY IT ADMINISTRATIVELY
BY A RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
PERMIT IF THAT ADDITION WENT
DOWN TO TWO FEET FIVE INCHES
AND CROSS TWO INCHES THAT
DOESN'T MEET NO ONE AND WOULD
REQUIRE A VARIANCE.
NUMBER TWO, IF THE ALTERATION
DOES NOT CREATE ANY NEW
NONCONFORMITY ON THE LOT OR AN
ADJACENT LOT IF YOU'RE CREATING
A NEW NONCONFORMITY SITUATION
THAT MEANS YOU DON'T YOUR
ADDITION TO YOUR PROJECT
DOESN'T MEET THE CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE REQUIREMENTS AND IT'S
CREATING A NONCONFORMIST
EQUATION.
YOU NEED A VARIANCE NO
OBJECTION THERE.
NO OBJECTION.
NO NO.
THREE THE ALTERATION MAINTAINS
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL OTHER
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS OF THE
ZONING DISTRICT FOR A LOT
OF WHICH IS LOCATED IF YOU MEET
ALL THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE R1
DESTROY YOU CAN GET IT
APPROVED.
IF YOU DON'T YOU NEED A
VARIANCE AND NO FOR THE
ALTERATION WILL MEET ALL OTHER
CODE AND ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS
SETBACKS HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
FOR THERE TWENTY DISTRICT
BUILDING CODE IF YOU DON'T MEET
ANY OF IF YOU DON'T MEET
SOMETHING OF THAT OF THAT
CODE YOU NEED A VARIANCE.
SO ALL FOUR OF THOSE BULLET
POINTS ARE A TRUE STATEMENT
THAT YOU WILL NEED A VARIANCE
OTHERWISE YOU NEED A VARIANCE
BECAUSE IN EVERY SITUATION YOU
DON'T MEET ONE OF THOSE FOR
THAT RULE REQUIRE VARIANCE.
RIGHT.
SO NO LONGER AN ALTERATION THE
ALTERATION IS GONE DOESN'T
EXIST.
YEAH.
SO THIS WHAT THIS WHAT FOR FOR
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.
I WANT TO PUSH ON TWO POINTS SO
THE EXAMPLE THAT YOU'VE GIVEN
HERE I UNDERSTAND INTUITIVELY
EXTENDING IF YOU HAVE IF YOU'RE
OVERLAPPING ONTO A SET BACK AND
THAT'S THE WHAT THIS EXAMPLE
LOOKS LIKE I'VE GOT ON THE
RIGHT SIDE OF THE SCREEN THAT
THE EXISTING HOUSE IS IN THE
SET BACK A LITTLE BIT.
IS THAT WHAT I'M LOOKING AT?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
IT'S ENCROACHING FIVE INCHES SO
I'M PUSHING OUT OVER TOP
OF THAT SET BACK AND EXPANDING
FROM AGGRAVATING THE NON
CONFORMANCE AS I PUSH OUT IN
THIS DIAGRAM, CORRECT?
NO, THEY WERE YOU SEE YOU SEE
AT THE BOTTOM IT SAYS TWO FEET
SEVEN INCHES AND THEN AT THE
TOP SAYS TWO FEET SEVEN INCHES.
YEAH.
THAT PROPOSED ADDITION
CONTINUED THE SAME TWO FEET
SEVEN INCHES THEY BUILT ALONG
THE SAME FACADE ELEVATION PLAIN
IF YOU WILL AND THAT THAT TODAY
THAT REQUIRES AN ALTERATION TO
A NON PERFORMING STRUCTURE.
YOU HAVE TO GO TO ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS AND GET APPROVAL FOR
AN ALTERATION BECAUSE YOU'RE
NOT MEETING THE THREE FOOT
SIDES BACK BECAUSE THEY WERE
BUILDING FARTHER INTO A
SETBACK.
THEY'RE NOT BUILDING FARTHER
INTO THEIR BUILDING ALONG THE
SAME SET BACK OF TWO FEET SEVEN
INCHES.
THAT'S WHAT I'M LOOKING AT UP
HERE.
>> I UNDERSTAND.
I THINK I UNDERSTAND IT'S NOT
WHAT I'M GETTING AT.
IT'S NOT THAT IT'S GETTING
CLOSER TO A LOT THAT'S IT'S
THAT IT'S IT'S IT'S IT'S
TRAMPLING ON THE SETBACK
ADDITIONALLY.
CORRECT.
IT'S THE SETBACKS THE
NONPERFORMING IS ALREADY AT TWO
FEET SEVEN INCHES RIGHT THERE
BUT THEY'RE AGGRAVATING IT
WHICH IS WHY IT HAS TO GO FROM
THE ZIBA LIKE I'M MASSIVELY
MISSING SOMETHING IT IT DOESN'T
MEET THE THREE FEET SO IT HAS
TO GO TO ZIBA BECAUSE YOUR
PROJECT DOESN'T MEET IT.
WHAT WE'RE SAYING IS IF THIS
TAXMEN PROPOSED THE SCENARIO
LIKE THIS WILL NOT REQUIRE
TZVIA APPROVAL ANY LONGER.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO GET YOUR
ALTERATION.
YOU CAN NOW GET THIS I CAN
APPROVE THIS PROJECT PLANNING
MANAGER CAN APPROVE THIS
PROJECT VIA A BUILDING PERMIT.
>> I'M MISSING SOMETHING.
BUT RATHER THAN TAKE UP THE
ENTIRE MEETING, LET ME ASK THE
QUESTION A DIFFERENT WAY.
>> THE CURRENT LANGUAGE SAYS
THAT THE PLANNING MANAGER CAN'T
APPROVE CAN BYPASS ZIBA IF THE
PROJECT CONFORMS TO ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER.
YES, WE ARE NOW ADDING A LIST
OF FOUR INSTEAD OF THE SET
OF THAT LANGUAGE I'M ADDING
LIKE PACKING IT INTO FOR THE GO
AHEAD PLANNING MANAGER CAN NOW
APPROVE IF THIS MEETS ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE CHAPTER.
THIS DOESN'T MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS THE CHAPTER THE
REQUIREMENT IS THREE FEET.
THEY'RE STILL STAYING AT TWO
SEVEN SO YOU HAVE TO GO GET
THIS ALTERATION TO A
NON-PERFORMING STRUCTURE WHICH
IS KIND OF BECOME A RUBBER
STAMP ZIBA BECAUSE WE ONLY HAVE
ONE FINDING OF FACT TO MEET AND
IT WON'T HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
IMPACT.
JUST STRONG PROPERTY OWNERS.
WE'RE NOT GETTING ANY NEGATIVE
FEEDBACK FROM SURROUNDING
PROPERTY OWNERS.
WE'RE NOT GETTING ANY ANYONE TO
SHOW UP AT THE MEETINGS AND NO
NO CORRESPONDENCE.
SO EVERY ONE OF THEM THEY
REQUIRE A THOUSAND OUR
APPLICATION THEY REQUIRE A
SURVEY THE REQUIRED ELEVATION
FLOOR PLANS AND WE GO THROUGH
THE WHOLE PROCESS AND THEY'RE
BEING APPROVED AUTOMATICALLY.
I STILL I STILL DON'T GET IT
BUT I GOT TO LET IT START.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'LL START WITH COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS AND THEN COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS RELATED BUT SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT.
WHAT DOES THAT I FEEL LIKE
THERE'S STILL A LOOPHOLE IN NO
ONE.
SO IF YOU HAD A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE WHICH WAS
NONCONFORMING BASED ON ITS
HEIGHT, I'D SAY ITS SETBACKS
WERE GREATER THAN THE REQUIRED
BACK AND THE ALTERATION DID
EXTEND CLOSER TO THE LOT LINE
BUT WAS STILL WITHIN THE LEGAL
SETBACK.
>> WE WOULDN'T WANT THAT TO
HAVE TO GO TO ZUBA.
RIGHT.
SO I'M SAYING I THINK THE
INTENT OF ONE MAKES SENSE TO ME
BUT THE LANGUAGE FEELS LIKE
MAYBE TOO SPECIFIC ABOUT
EXTENDING CLOSER TO THAT LIKE
IT WOULD BE POSSIBLE FOR A NON
STRUCTURE TO HAVE AN ALTERATION
THAT EXTENDED CLOSER TO THE
LINE BUT WAS STILL WITHIN THE
REQUIRED SET BACK.
IT'S STILL MET THE SETBACK
REQUIREMENT BECAUSE IT WAS NOT
GOOD FOR ME BECAUSE OF ITS
HEIGHT SAY IF IT IF YOU WERE TO
PUT IN A SECOND STORY ADDITION
ON HOUSE NO.
OK, SO DON'T FORGET THIS ONE.
SO IMAGINE YOU HAVE A MARGINAL
STRUCTURE.
IT'S NOT GOOD FOR THEM BECAUSE
IT'S TOO TALL.
OK, BUT BUT IT MEETS THE
SETBACK REQUIREMENTS OK SO IT'S
ACTUALLY GENEROUS SO HAS ROOM
TO SPARE RWC DISTRICT YOUR
MAXIMUM HEIGHT THIS THIRTY
FEET.
YEAH AND IT'S THIRTY FIVE FEET
SURE AND WHAT ARE THE WHAT ARE
THOSE SIDE SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
BY THE OK SO SAY IT HAS TEN
FOOT SIDES OF THE HOUSE IT'S
TEN FEET FROM THE WALL.
YEAH.
AND THEN SAY THE ALTERATION
REDUCES THAT TO SEVEN FOOT
SETBACK OK SO IT'S STILL WITHIN
THE DOES THE HEIGHT STILL STAY
AT THIRTY FIVE.
>> YEAH THEN IT REQUIRES
ALTERATION TO A NOT PERFORMANCE
STRUCTURE CURRENTLY CURRENTLY
BUT I'M SAYING WE WOULD WANT
THAT ONE TO BE ABLE TO HAVE
PLANNING MANAGER APPROVAL.
IT WOULD IT COULDN'T HERE
BECAUSE THAT BECAUSE IT SAYS IT
CAN'T EXTEND CLOSER TO THE FLAT
LINE SO IN THIS CASE DO YOU SEE
IT IN SAYING IT'D BE POSSIBLE
TO EXTEND CLOSER TO THE I GUESS
I'M JUST SAYING LET'S CHANGE
THAT TO SAY MEETING THE SETBACK
BACK REQUIREMENT, OK, BECAUSE
IT IF IT IF IT EXTENDS CLOSER
TO THE LOT LINE BUT IT'S STILL
MEETS THE DISTRICT REQUIREMENT,
THEN I CAN WE CAN APPROVE THAT
ADMINISTRATIVELY.
WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO YOU COULD
BECAUSE I'D BE REVIEWING THE
PLANS.
I'D LOOK AT THOSE SETBACKS.
I'D LOOK AT THE DISTRICT EVEN
IF IT WAS NONCONFORMING FOR
HEIGHT IF IT IF THIS GETS
APPROVED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THIS GETS APPROVED IN THAT
HEIGHT STAYS AT THIRTY FIVE
FEET.
YEAH.
AND THE ADDITION GOES TO SEVEN
FEET AND THE REQUIREMENTS FIVE
IT MEETS ALL THE DISTRICT
REQUIREMENT IT MEETS ALL THE
DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF THE
RNC DISTRICT AND IT MEETS ALL
THE REQUIREMENTS OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE.
>> I CAN APPROVE IT SO I
UNDERSTAND THAT BUT TECHNICALLY
IT'S VIOLATING NO ONE BECAUSE
NO ONE SAYS IT CAN'T EXTEND
CLOSER TO THE LINE.
SO I THINK IF WE JUST CHANGE IT
AND SAID THE ALTERATION DOES
NOT HELP ME OUT HERE PEOPLE
THEN I WOULD NO FOR IT HAS TO
MEET ALL OTHER CODE N YEAH IT
DOES AND SO THAT I COULD
APPROVE IT BUT DOESN'T HAVE TO
MEET ALL FOUR OF THESE FOUR
WE'LL SEE IT SO IN YOUR EXAMPLE
THE HOUSE IS TEN FEET OFF THE
SIDE LOT LINE SO IT'S NOT NOT
GOOD FOR ME IT'S NOT BECAUSE
IT'S TOO TALL BUT SO IF WE
APPROVE THIS TAX AMENDMENT THAT
WILL TAKE CARE OF Y BECAUSE YOU
CAN BECAUSE YOU CAN I WE CAN
APPROVE IT BECAUSE IT'S
MAINTAINING THE SAME SET THAT
OR THE SAME BUT IT'S VIOLATING
NO ONE ON HERE AND IT'S ON THIS
TEXT CLEARLY SAYS THAT IF IT
DOESN'T MEET ALL FOUR OF THESE
STANDARDS IT HAS TO GO GET A
VARIANCE FROM THE ZIBA.
>> WELL IT EXTENDS TO THE PLOT
LINE BUT IT MEETS THOSE
REQUIREMENTS.
YES, EXACTLY.
WELL, I'M JUST SAYING IF WE
JUST CHANGE THE LANGUAGE OF NO
ONE AND SAY INSTEAD OF BEING
INSTEAD OF IT BEING ABOUT
EXTENDING CLOSER TO THE LINE,
IT JUST NEEDS TO MEET THE
SETBACKS AND THE MORE WELL, I'M
SAYING YOU WANT YOU WANT TO
COME BOTH YOU CAN MOVE ON, OK,
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT WE'RE GOING
TO STAY WITH YOU BUT A COUNCIL
MEMBER WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHAT
YOU'RE PROPOSING IS IS
CLARIFYING WHAT COMMISSIONER
ADAMS IS OBJECTING TO.
RIGHT.
SO CAN I JUST CLARIFY SO
COMMISSIONER ADAMS IS SPEAKING
TO A SITUATION WHERE YOU HAD A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE THAT
WAS NOT NONCONFORMING BY VIRTUE
THE WAY THAT ONE IS EXTENDING
INTO A SETBACK?
IT'S NOT CONFORMING FOR SOME
OTHER REASON COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS HAS SAID WHAT IF IT'S
HEIGHT?
>> YES.
OK, SO WE WE WANT IT WE WANT TO
MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR THAT
WHAT'S ON THE SCREEN NOT TO GO
TO ZIBA
.
SO WE WANT TO MAKE IT CLEAR
THAT IT DOES NOT HAVE TO THAT
YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MEET SETBACK
REQUIREMENTS IN ORDER TO AVOID
GOING TO THE ZIBA BECAUSE THAT
WOULD HAVE TO GO TO THE QUBA IF
WE SPECIFY THAT IF WE SPECIFY
IF WE PUT THAT BACK INTO POINT
ONE.
SO COULD WE NOT INSERT
SOMETHING LIKE THE ALTERATION
DOES NOT EXTEND A NONCONFORMITY
CLOSER TO THE LINE BECAUSE IT
WOULDN'T BE A PROBLEM IN THE
SCENARIO THAT COMMISSIONER
AVIANS JUST OUTLINED FOR THE
EDITION TO EXTEND FURTHER INTO
CLOSER TO THE LINE.
THAT'S NOT A PROBLEM IN THE
SITUATION THAT YOU OUTLINED AND
THIS IS WHAT COMMISSIONER
ADAM'S OBJECTION IS.
SO IT'S EXTENDING THE
NONCONFORMITY THAT'S THE
PROBLEM.
>> THE THE WAY POINT ONE IS
WRITTEN NOW IS ASSUMES THAT ALL
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES HAVE A
SET BACK NONCONFORMITY
COMPONENT TO THEM BUT THAT MAY
NOT BE TRUE AS IN THE EXAMPLE
THAT COMMISSIONER APRON'S GAVE
.
>> IS THAT CLEAR?
NO, IT'S NOT WHAT YOU DESCRIBE
AS A COVERED IN NUMBER TWO I I
SEE THE POINTS THAT ARE BEING
RAISED RIGHT NOW THERE WE COULD
ADD SOME CLARIFYING LANGUAGE IS
NOT EXACTLY COMING TO ME
SUCCINCTLY BUT SOMETHING THAT
WOULD REFER TO TO SPECIFY THAT
THE ISSUE IS THE EXACERBATION
OF THE SET BACK FOR FOR NUMBER
ONE BECAUSE WHAT WE'RE TRYING
TO GET OUT AND NO ONE IS
SPECIFIC TO SET BACKS AND BUT
THE WAY IT'S WRITTEN WOULD
POTENTIALLY LEND A CONFORMING
FOR SETBACKS NONCONFORMING
PROPERTY SEEKING TO BE ALTERED
TO NOT EXPAND INTO THEIR SET
BACK AREA THE WAY THEIR
NEIGHBORS ARE.
>> AND THAT'S NOT THE POINT.
>> SO I I DO SEE WHAT IS BEING
I DO SEE WHAT IS BEING RAISED
AND WE COULD THINK ABOUT FIRST
OF ALL, LET ME SAY THAT WE'RE
VERY HAPPY TO BRING THIS BACK
TO ANOTHER MEETING IN JANUARY
BECAUSE SOMETIMES THE TABLE
AMENDMENTS CAN BE A LITTLE
MESSY AND WE WOULD BE HAPPY TO
TO RE NOTICE AND BRING BACK
WITH SOME POTENTIALLY NEW
LANGUAGE OR TO POSTPONE TO TO A
CERTAIN DATE NOT TO STOP THE
DISCUSSION BUT JUST TO TO SHARE
THAT.
>> BUT I SEE WHAT'S BEING
RAISED.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS AND THE
OTHER TO CELEBRATE AND A POINT
I MADE BEFORE WE HAVE AN
EXISTING EXEMPTION A CARVE OUT
IN HERE THAT I HAVEN'T HEARD
ANYTHING OR READ ANYTHING IN
THE STAFF REPORT REGARDING IT
NOT WORKING WELL SO FAR AS THE
PLANNING MANAGER MAKES THIS
DETERMINATION THAT THE
ALTERATION CONFORMS TO ALL
OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS
CHAPTER AND EXPANDING ON THAT
WITH A LIST OF THINGS THAT NOW
HAVE TO BE INTERPRETED AND
APPLIED, I'D HAVE TO UNDERSTAND
THE RATIONALE FOR THAT TO WANT
TO SUPPORT IT BECAUSE THAT'S
MORE LANGUAGE.
IT'S MORE STUFF.
THERE'S JUDGMENT THAT GOES INTO
UPON A FINDING IT CONFORMS TO
ALL THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS
CHAPTER.
WHY DO WE WANT TO CHANGE THAT?
BECAUSE WE'RE JUST TRYING TO
EXPAND SOMETHING THAT APPLIES
TO THESE DISTRICTS TO MORE
TYPES OF STUFF AND WE FEEL LIKE
WE OUGHT TO BE ABLE TO DO THAT
WITHOUT DOING A BUNCH MORE
DRAFTING.
SO IF WE CAN DO IT SIMPLER I
THINK WE OUGHT TO DO IT SIMPLER
IF WE HAVE TO HAVE THIS LIST
THEN I THINK WE OUGHT TO MAKE
IT CLEAR THAT YOU'VE GOT TO
MEET ALL THE ELEMENTS OF THE
LIST AND THEN THE LANGUAGE AT
THE END ABOUT VARIANCE APPROVAL
I DON'T THINK WE NEED UNLESS WE
NEED IT FOR A REASON.
>> I DON'T UNDERSTAND OTHER
COMMISSIONERS UNLESS YOU WANT
TO MAKE AN AMENDMENT OK COUNCIL
NO.
>> SO I DID WANT TO POINT TO
SOMETHING THAT SOUNDED LIKE A
DISPARITY TO ME IN THE STAFF
MEMO AND IT'S AND SO ON PAGE
TWO OF THE STAFF MEMO THE THE
AMENDMENT IS DESCRIBED AS
ALLOWING AN ALTERATION OF THE
FOLLOWING OR TRUE.
IT DOES NOT EXTEND CLOSER TO A
LOT LINE.
WE'VE DISCUSSED THE ISSUE WITH
THAT.
IT DOES NOT CREATE ANY NEW ON
CONFORMITY THAT TOTALLY MAKES
SENSE.
IT COMPLIES WITH DISTRICT
SETBACK AND OTHER DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS.
>> WAIT A MINUTE, DOESN'T THAT
UNDO WHAT I MEAN?
WELL, OK.
AND THEN ON ON PAGE THREE
OF THE ON PAGE THREE OF THE
STAFF MEMO IT SAYS THE PROPOSED
CHANGES EXTEND ADMINISTRATIVE
APPROVAL TO FAMILY AND MULTIPLE
FAMILY DWELLINGS AND NO LONGER
REQUIRE THE ALTERATION TO
COMPLY WITH SEPAK STANDARDS
WHICH I AM UNDERSTANDING IS ONE
OF THE KEY ELEMENTS OF THIS BUT
THAT THE LANGUAGE ON PAGE TWO
SEEMS TO CONTRADICT THE
LANGUAGE ON PAGE THREE UNLESS
THERE'S SOMETHING THAT I DON'T
UNDERSTAND ABOUT THE WORD
SETBACK
.
>> SO WE'RE LOOKING AT PAGE
THREE PANDE THREE WHICH
PARAGRAPH OR OK HOLD ON THIS
PROPOSAL WOULD AMEND PARAGRAPH
B TO PROVIDE THIS IS YEAH
THAT'S THE FIRST PARAGRAPH
RIGHT.
AND IN THAT MANAGER PROVE RIGHT
AND THAT SEEMS TO BE IN
CONFLICT WITH SOMETHING THE
PREVIOUS PAGE THIS ONE THIS
PARAGRAPH SEEMS CORRECT.
OK, THE PROPOSAL THE PROPOSED
CHANGES EXTEND ADMINISTRATIVE
APPROVALS TO TWO FAMILY AND
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLINGS AND
NO LONGER REQUIRE THE
ALTERATION TO COMPLY WITH
SETBACK STANDARDS ON PAGE TWO
IF YOU LOOK UNDER THE PARAGRAPH
IT SAYS DESCRIPTION
OF AMENDMENT IS THE PENULTIMATE
ON THE PAGE RIGHT THERE ARE
THROUGH FOUR BULLET POINTS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE THIRD BULLET
POINT, THE THIRD BULLET POINT
SAYS THE ALTERATION WITH A SET
BACK SORRY.
I UNDERSTAND.
YEAH I SEE THE THE CONFLICT
THERE.
>> JOHN, DID YOU WANT TO SPEAK
TO THAT?
NO.
>> ALL RIGHT, COMMISSIONER
NORDON SO WE'RE NOT TRYING TO
BEAT UP ON YOU MR JUST FIGURE
FIGURE OUT HOW TO DO THIS AS
NEATLY AS POSSIBLE.
I'M PICKING UP ON COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS COMMENT.
WOULD THERE BE WOULD IT WORK
JUST AS WELL TO BASICALLY
REPLICATE THE LANGUAGE FOR THE
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES WHERE
THE ZIBA IS MAKING IMPROVABLE
UPON FINDING THAT IT'S MEETS
THE REQUIREMENTS AND JUST SAY
FOR RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES A
PLANNING MANAGER HAS ISSUED
APPROVAL BECAUSE IT MEETS ALL
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
STRUCTURE IS THERE I GUESS I'M
KIND PICKING UP ON WHY WHY IS
IT NECESSARY TO LIST OUT ALL
OF THESE PARTICULAR ITEMS?
IS THAT TO GIVE YOU GUIDANCE ON
HOW TO APPLY IT OR IS THAT OR
IT'S TRYING TO PROVIDE MORE
CLARITY THAT MAYBE IS KIND
OF MAKING WORK FOR EXAMPLE?
WHAT ARE YOU SAYING?
SO YOU'RE SAYING YOU SHOULD SAY
WHAT SO B COULD READ
ALTERATIONS TO RESIDENTIAL
COMPONENT STRUCTURES AND
ALTERATION MEETING OR CURRENT
PARALLEL TOP LANGUAGE AND
ALTERATION IS APPROVED BY THE
PLANNING MANAGER UPON FINDING
THAT IT HAS COMPLIED WITH THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER
AND IT WILL NOT HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
>> SO WHAT IS THE THE BENEFIT
TO THE STAFF INTERPRETATION
OF THE PROPOSED NEW STANDARDS
TO GUIDE THE PLANNING MANAGER
APPROVAL VERSUS TO SAY AS
NEARLY AS PRACTICAL PRACTICABLE
BASICALLY IS THERE WHAT WOULD
BE THE STAFF BENEFIT OR OVERALL
BENEFIT OF THE NEW LANGUAGE AS
OPPOSED TO THE STREAMLINED
LANGUAGE?
SO THE SO THE THE NEW
ALTERATION WILL HAVE TO COMPLY
WITH ALL THE STUFF EX THE THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE CHAPTER NOT
NEARLY AS PRACTICABLE.
SO HAVE APPLIED OTHERWISE YOU'D
NEED A VARIANCE
.
IS THAT TRUE FOR NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES THAT YOU'RE GOING
BEFORE THE ZIBA ANYWAY.
>> SO I'M I'M CONFUSED BY WHAT
YOU'RE ASKING ME RIGHT NOW.
>> THE WHOLE PURPOSE OF THIS IS
TO TAKE OFF OF THE ZORBA'S
PLATE ALTERATIONS
OF NONPERFORMANCE STRUCTURES
FOR RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE FOR
THAT BUT THEY'RE STILL DEALING
WITH THE NON NON RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE.
CORRECT.
SO WHAT'S WHY HAVE THE LANGUAGE
THAT APPLIES TO YOU BE ANY
DIFFERENT THAN THE LANGUAGE
THAT APPLIES TO THEM?
WHY WHY SPELL OUT IN DETAIL THE
PARTICULAR CRITERIA THE
PLANNING MANAGER HAS TO USE
WHEN WE DON'T DO THAT FOR WHAT
THE ECB HAS TO DO?
I'M NOT I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
QUESTION BUT I'M SORRY.
CAN I TAKE A STEP SO COULD WE
FOR A YOU HAVE A CLEARER
ARTICULATION AND WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT IF I UNDERSTAND
COMMISSIONER MORTEN CORRECTLY
IS TO EFFECTIVELY MIRROR THE
LANGUAGE SO YOU WOULD GET RID
OF ALL THE SUB POINTS AND I
WOULD JUST SAY RESIDENTIAL
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND
ALTERATION MUST MEET THE
STANDARDS THAT WILL BE APPROVED
BY THE PLANNING MANAGER.
WE'LL HAVE TO FIGURE OUT THE
LANGUAGE THERE BECAUSE IT THE
WAY IT'S WRITTEN NOW, IT
DEPENDS ON THE FORCE UP POINTS
BUT IT WOULD BE STRIKING THOSE
AND GIVING THE DISCRETION BACK
TO THE PLANNING MANAGER AS YOU
GIVE IT DISCRETION.
>> BUT I COULD SEE WHERE YOU
WANT TO HAVE IT SPELLED OUT.
YEAH, EXACTLY BECAUSE A APPLIES
TO NONRESIDENTIAL SO LET'S NOT
EVEN LOOK AT THEY SHOULD BE IS
SAYING THAT THE ALTERATION HAS
TO COMPLY WITH THE FOUR BELOW
AND IF IT DOESN'T IT'S GOING TO
REQUIRE A VARIANCE.
>> IT'S ALL THE SAME AND SO IF
IT DOESN'T IF YOUR PROJECT
DOESN'T MEET THE FOUR STEPS
BELOW IT'S GOING TO REQUIRE
VARIANCE.
>> RIGHT.
AND I THINK THE THE THE
INTEREST IN THE CONVERSATION AT
THE TABLE IS COULD YOU LEAVE
THAT DESCRIPTION TO THE
PLANNING MANAGER AS OPPOSED TO
STRIKING HAVING WRITTEN IN
CODE BECAUSE WE'RE TRYING TO
SIMPLIFY AND THE WAY IT'S
WRITTEN THE TABLE HAS SOME
LET'S IN ADDITION IT DIDN'T
COMPLY WITH THE SET BACK LIKE
IN THIS EXAMPLE YOU HAVE TO SAY
THOSE YOU HAVE TO APPLY THOSE
FOUR BULLET POINTS IN ORDER TO
PROVE IT ADMINISTRATIVELY AND I
DON'T KNOW HOW YOU WOULD SAY
THAT AND B BY SAYING AN
ALTERATION
IF YOU SAY IT MUST
MEET ALL THE REQUIREMENTS AFTER
FIFTY FIVE THIS WOULDN'T
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T MEET THE
THREE FOOT SIDES OF THAT.
SO WHAT THOSE BULLET POINTS ARE
DOING IS ALLOWING STAFF TO
APPROVE SOMETHING
ADMINISTRATIVELY THAT DOESN'T
MEET ALL THE REQUIREMENTS
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE.
>> OK I I I UNDERSTAND I THINK
I UNDERSTAND THE THE THE FLOW
THAT YOU ARE IN I'M I THINK I
NEED A MOMENT TO STEP OUT OF IT
TO FIGURE OUT HOW I WOULD
ARTICULATE BECAUSE WHAT I'M
HEARING OF THE TABLES IT HAS TO
MEET ALL THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THIS CHAPTER B IS SAYING IT
DOESN'T HAVE TO MEET ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS IF IT MEETS THE
STORE STANDARDS BELOW.
SURE.
EXCEPT FOR THESE THINGS.
POINT IS WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO
APPROVE SOMETHING
ADMINISTRATIVELY THAT DOESN'T
MEET CODE AND YOU DON'T WANT
THAT TO BE IT.
I'M SORRY I DON'T MEAN TO PUT
WORDS IN YOUR MOUTH BUT AS I'M
IN THE PROCESSING IT YOU DON'T
WANT TO LEAVE THAT TO THE
DISCRETION OF PLANNING MANAGER.
YOU WANT THAT EXPLICIT I'VE
STATED I WANT STANDARDS APPLIED
OK AND THAT'S WHAT THE FOUR
BULLET POINT AND SO IT SHOULD
MEET ME SAY THE ALTERATION
DOESN'T HAVE TO COMPLY WITH THE
WITH CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE IT SAYS
IT CAN IT HAS TO COMPLY WITH
FIFTY FIVE AND OR THESE FORCED
THESE FOUR POINTS.
WHAT WE'RE DOING IS WE'RE WE'RE
ALLOWING SOMETHING
ADMINISTRATIVELY THAT'S NOT
ALLOWED BY CODE .
>> RIGHT AND YOU'RE TRYING
SIMPLIFY IT FOR THE PERSON WHO
CURRENTLY HAS TO COME TO ZIBA
WHO ALMOST ALWAYS GETS AN
APPROVAL AND SO YOU'RE JUST
TRYING TO SIMPLIFY THAT AND I
WONDER IF I CAN AS I'M
LISTENING TO THE CONVERSATION,
I THINK BECAUSE I WAS ALSO
THINKING ABOUT THE HEIGHT AS A
NONCONFORMING BECAUSE I'M IN AH
ONE C AND IT'S LIKE IF WE'RE AT
THIRTY FIVE BECAUSE THE HOUSE
WAS BUILT BEFORE THE STANDARD
WAS PUT IN PLACE.
NOW WE'RE IN A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE AND IF WE WANT TO PUT
IN A OFFICE THAT NOW ENCROACHES
INTO THE SITE SET BACK IT WOULD
I COULD GET TRIPPED UP HERE IF
I HAD A NEIGHBOR WHO WAS
CONCERNED THAT I'M NOW
APPROACHING THIS THIS SETBACK
SO WHAT YOU JUST SAID WAS IF I
COULD BUILD IN ADDITION THAT
ENCROACHES INTO THE SITE THAT
YEAH, THAT'S GOING TO REQUIRE A
VARIANCE BUT IT'S STILL INSIDE
A LOT SETBACK FOR OUR C ONE.
>> SO I'M CURRENTLY NO YOU JUST
SAID IT DOESN'T MEET THE SIDES.
OK, GREAT.
SO YOU DON'T WANT TO SEE FIVE
FOOT SIDE SAT BACK AND YOU AT
FOUR FEET THAT REQUIRES A
VARIANCE BUT IF YOU CONTINUE
WITH THE THIRTY FIVE FOOT
HEIGHT THEN YOU DON'T CHANGE
THAT AND STILL SAY THAT THIRTY
FIVE AND YOU'RE AT FIVE FEET OR
SIX OR SEVEN THEN THEY WERE
RELATIVELY OK IT'S ONLY WHEN
YOU DON'T MEET THE THE
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR THE
DISTRICT AND ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS FOR CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE AND THAT'S WHY THOSE FOUR
BULLET POINTS ARE THERE BECAUSE
THAT'S SAYING YOU DON'T MEET
THE REQUIREMENT OF THIS
CHAPTER.
YEAH AND WE'RE JUST IN A WE'RE
IN AN INTERESTING POSITION
BECAUSE WE'RE TRYING TO PROMOTE
THINGS THAT ARE NOT PERMITTED
BY CODE .
EXACTLY.
IT'S BASICALLY AN
ADMINISTRATIVE VARIANCE AND
THAT THAT'S WHAT IS CREATING A
LOT OF THESE CONDITIONS
CURRENTLY EXIST.
NO, NO THAT THAT YOU ARE
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
NOT INCREASING THEM.
YES, YOU ARE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT
ALONG THE SAME WE'RE TRYING TO
PROVIDE RELIEF THAT WE ARE
ALREADY PROVIDING BUT PUTTING
IT INTO CODE EVEN THOUGH THE
CODE SAYS IT SHOULDN'T BE
PROVIDED AND THAT IS THAT IS A
CHALLENGE IF ANYONE'S LIKE WHAT
ARE WE ACTUALLY TALKING ABOUT
THAT THAT IS IT.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S GO BACK TO THE TABLE TO
SEE IF ANYONE ELSE HAS
ADDITIONS OR CHANGES YOU WANT
TO PROPOSE.
THIS IS A QUIRKY, POORLY WORDED
SET OF PROVISIONS JUST THE WAY
IT WAS DRAFTED ORIGINALLY.
IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO ME
JUST STRICTLY FOR LEGAL
DRAFTING.
COULD WE PLAY WITH THIS MORE
BEFORE CURRENT FORWARD AND I'M
HAPPY TO GIVE YOU SOME THOUGHTS
ON WHY I THINK IT'S PRETTY SURE
WHAT WE COULD DO IS WE COULD
ACTUALLY READ YOUR CALENDAR IS
COMING UP ON THIS AGENDA.
SO I HAD TO THINK ABOUT
SO WE
COULD POSTPONE THIS FOR EXAMPLE
FOR A VOTE AND FEBRUARY 2ND
MEETING IN FEBRUARY OR
SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES AND
SCHEDULE FOR A WORKING SESSION
IN BETWEEN NOW AND THEN
SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES
MAKE SURE TO BRING IT BACK TO
WORKING SESSION FOR IT TOTALLY
GET WHAT YOU'RE TRYING TO DO
AND I UNDERSTAND THE DESIRE TO
HAVE THESE CRITERIA LISTED.
BUT THE WAY THIS IS DRAFTED IS
JUST HARD TO FOLLOW IN PART
OF THAT BECAUSE OF THE WAY IT
WAS DRAFTED ORIGINALLY
COMMISSIONER?
WELL, WE'VE WE'VE HAD A WORKING
SESSION RIGHT ON IT WHICH WAS
EXTENSIVE.
I THINK THE CONCERNS ARE CLEAR
.
WE'VE RAISED A CONCERN THAT THE
FIRST POINT IS ACTUALLY
CREATING SOME FLEXIBILITY THAT
IT DOESN'T INTEND AND THAT'S
GOING TO BE CORRECTED.
THE ALTERATION DOES NOT CREATE
A NEW NONCONFORMITY ON THE LOT
OR AN ADJACENT LOT.
IS THERE ANYTHING UNCLEAR ABOUT
THAT DOES NOT CREATE A NEW
NONCONFORMITY SO I COULDN'T
WELL NO, I'M NOT GOING TO TRY
AS I CAN DO THOSE CASES.
THAT'S THAT'S JOHN.
THE ALTERATION MAINTAINS
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL OTHER
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS OF THE
ZONING DISTRICT FOR THE LOT ON
WHICH IT IS LOCATED.
THAT MIGHT NOT BE EASY FOR A
LAYPERSON TO UNDERSTAND BUT I
THINK THAT MOST PEOPLE WHO DO
WORK WITH THE CITY UNDERSTAND
THAT THERE ARE NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES IN NONCONFORMING
LOTS AND THAT WOULD BE CLEAR TO
THEM AND THEN ALL OTHER
CODE AND ORDINANCE
REQUIREMENTS.
YEAH, YOU HAVE TO MEET
EVERYTHING BUT YOU DON'T HAVE
TO MEET SETBACKS AND YOU CAN
EXTEND CLOSER TO THE LOT LINE
IF YOU AREN'T ALREADY
ENCROACHING ON THE SET.
YOU KNOW, THAT'S NUMBER ONE.
SO THIS SEEMS TO ME NOT TO
REQUIRE MORE GROUP EFFORT IF
MAYBE YOU GUYS WANT TO
CORRESPOND COMMISSIONER THAT
SEEMS GREAT BUT I FEEL LIKE IT
WOULDN'T BE A GOOD USE OF A
WORK SESSION WHICH ARE YOU
KNOW, WE'VE GOT A LOT OF STUFF
TO DO.
I WOULD RATHER HAVE KEVIN WHOSE
LAST NAME I DON'T KNOW IS NO
NO.
I WOULD LIKE KEVIN MCDONALD TO
COME BACK BUT THAT'S NOT IT.
I WOULD LIKE TO NAME THE PARK
AFTER KEVIN MCDONALD.
NO, I MEAN KEVIN WHO'S THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PERSON I
WOULD LIKE HIM TO COME BACK AND
TALK TO US ABOUT THE THE
RATIONALE FOR THE DISTRICTS
THAT EXCLUDE HOUSING IN THE
COMP PLAN.
SO YOU KNOW, THAT WOULD BE A
GREAT YOU CAN SELL THE SESSION.
>> KEVIN , I'M SORRY.
OK, IT'S AGE MAYBE I'M SO
SORRY.
>> I'M REALLY GLAD YOU DON'T
KNOW KEVIN MACDONALD'S LIKE IF
I HAD AND I HAVE TO THE RECORD
NOTE FOR HIM OFF THE BOOKMARK
EIGHT FOURTEEN PM FOR YOUR FEE
IF IT WAS PICKED UP BY THE MC
SO IT LOOKS LIKE THERE'S SOME
AGREEMENT AT THE TABLE OF WHERE
SOME OF THE CONFUSION IS AND IT
SEEMS TO BE SENATOR NUMBER ONE.
SO HOW DO WE INTERPRET WHAT A
LOT LINE HOW DO WE INTERPRET NO
ONE CORRECTLY?
SO IF THERE IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR THAT TO BE DONE OFFLINE AND
THEN IT COULD JUST COME BACK AS
A REVISION AS OPPOSED TO A WORK
SESSION SEEMS TO BE THE THINGS
I WANT TO PROPOSE ARE REALLY
VERY MINOR BUT IT'S JUST LIKE
DRAFTING AND STARTING NOT IT'S
AS YOU SHOWED YOU SHOWED ME YOU
CAN'T DO THIS UNLESS THE
CONDITIONS ARE MET BUT THEN THE
VERBIAGE CHANGES, THE PHRASING
CHANGES IN THE WAY IT'S
PRESENTED SO MINOR JUST
DRAFTING TWEAKS IS ALL I'M
SUGGESTING SHOULD WRITE THEM UP
AT YOU'RE WELCOME TO EMAIL A
PROPOSAL TO STAFF.
>> YEAH WE WOULD HAVE TO RE
NOTICE AND WE'D HAVE TO REDO
THE PUBLIC HEARINGS AND THE
PRESENTATION IF WE DON'T
APPROVE IT TONIGHT IS THAT
CORRECT.
>> UM NO.
UH WE POSTPONE TO A DATE
CERTAIN THEN IT DOES NOT NEED
TO BE READ NOTICE WE'RE STILL
WORKING WITHIN THE CHANGES AND
SCOPE OF THE SECTION REFERENCED
IN THE PUBLIC HEARING
ADVERTISEMENT WHICH WE WOULD BE
.
SO COULD WE MOVE IT TO THE
SECOND MEETING OF JANUARY AND
THAT THAT WOULD GIVE THE REST
OF DECEMBER INTO JANUARY ENOUGH
TIME.
AND JERRY TO PULL OUT ROBERT'S
RULES OF ORDER TO
JOIN ONE THAT
WOULD BE THE TWENTY THIRD IS
MOVED TO A THURSDAY DUE TO ITS
SCHEDULE ADJUSTMENT FOR A
MARTIN LUTHER KING JUNIOR WHICH
IS FINE JUST SPEAKING OUT LOUD
WHICH WOULD GIVE STAFF THE
FIRST ROUGHLY A WEEK AND A HALF
OF JANUARY AND UNTIL THEN I
THINK WE COULD DO THAT.
THE 123 MEETING TO POSTPONE SO
A MOTION MIGHT SOUND LIKE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION MOVES TO
POSTPONE THE DISCUSSION OR THE
AGENDA ITEM FOR NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES TO THE JANUARY
TWENTY THIRD TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MEETING SO MOVED
IS THERE A
SECOND COMMISSIONER MILLS?
I DON'T THINK I COULD THAT WAS
LANGUAGE I MOVED IT YOU YOU
SPOKE YOU SPOKE THE LANGUAGE
AND I ACCEPTED IT AND I MOVED
IT AT THAT BUT THAT'S
ACCEPTABLE.
>> UM THE MOTION HAS BEEN MADE
AND SECOND IT IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION OF THIS POSTPONEMENT
TO A DATE CERTAIN CHAMBER
TWENTY SEEING NO DISCUSSION.
CAN WE JUST DO ABOUT FOYT OR
VOTE OR WOULD YOU RATHER DO A
ROLL-CALL VOTE POSTPONEMENT?
>> FINE TO HAVE A VOICE FOR ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I ANY OPPOSE
NAY GREAT.
THE AYES AND SO THE EXTENT
OF THE DISCUSSIONS FOR US TO
CONSIDER THE CLARITY
OF LANGUAGE SPOKEN TO AROUND
STANDARD ABOUT THE SHELVES AND
THE REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS
BEING MET.
SO ANYTHING THAT IS SPECIFYING
REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICANTS AND
THEN ALSO I HEARD CONSISTENCY
WITH HOW THAT'S PRESENTED
ELSEWHERE IN THE UDC SOME MAY
BE LOOK AT THAT UH AND TO MAKE
SURE THERE'S NOT AN UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE IN THE FIRST
REQUIRED STANDARD AM I MISSING
ANYTHING ELSE AND THEN MAYBE
THE FINAL SENTENCE ABOUT
OTHERWISE THE VARIANCE WOULD BE
REQUIRED MAYBE STRIKE OR
SIMPLIFY IT.
SO TO JUST NOT SAY ANYTHING
UNNECESSARY OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
DO WE NEED A BREAK OR ARE WE
READY TO KEEP GOING?
>> OK WE'RE MOVING ON TO NINE B
I WILL INTRODUCE A PETITION
WHICH IS THE DEXTRA ROAD AND
SIBLE ROAD PARK REZONING THE
PROPOSED ZONING OF TWO FIVE
SEVEN ZERO TWO FIVE SEVEN SIX
AND TWO FIVE EIGHT ZERO EXTRA
ROAD TO PUBLIC LAND.
THE LOTS WERE RECENTLY ACQUIRED
BY THE CITY FOR A PUBLIC PARK
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND WE HAVE A STAFF
PRESENTATION
SO THIS IS A STAFF
INITIATED REZONING OF THREE
PARCELS AT THE CORNER OF DEXTER
ROAD AND SUPPORT DRIVE FROM
THEIR CURRENT ZONING OF R1 C
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
TO OUR PUBLIC LAND BECAUSE THE
THREE PARCELS WERE RECENTLY
ACQUIRED BY THE CITY FOR A
PUBLIC PARK.
THE PARCELS WERE PURCHASED
USING PROCEEDS FROM THE OPEN
SPACE AND PARKLAND PRESERVATION
VILLAGE AND FUNDS FROM THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR GENERAL FUND
BECAUSE THEY ARE NOW OWNED BY
THE CITY.
THE THE APPROPRIATE ZONING
DESIGNATION IS PUBLIC LAND
PURCHASING OR ACCEPTING LAND
DONATIONS DOESN'T AUTOMATICALLY
CHANGE A ZONING DESIGNATION
WHICH IS WHY WE ARE HERE
TONIGHT.
THE THREE LOTTE'S CONTAIN ZERO
POINT SIX ACRES AND THEY MEET
ALL APPLICABLE STANDARDS OF THE
DISTRICT.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THERE IS NO
OFFICIAL NAME FOR THIS PARK YET
THE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND
RECREATION WILL UNDERGO THEIR
OFFICIAL NAMING AND RENAMING
POLICY FOR THE PARK.
THAT'S PRETTY MUCH ALL I HAVE
TO THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE NOW TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS PETITION.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ISSUE
WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE WHO
ARE PRESENT, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY.
PRESS STAR NINE IFONE OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FEATURE ANZU
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL ONE EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND IN OUR
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME FOR RESUME PARTICIPANTS
YOU WILL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION SEEING NONE DID WE
ACQUIRE ZOOME PARTICIPANTS
?
>> WE HAVE NOT GIVEN THAT THERE
ARE NO ZONE PARTICIPANTS.
I AM CLOSING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING AND WILL READ THE
MOTION.
THE NRA CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVED THE PARK AT DEXTER
ROAD AND CYBELE DRIVE REZONING
FROM OUR ONE CITY SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING TO ALL PUBLIC LAND
MOVI TISCH COUNCIL NO DISH AND
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE WE
ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER
THANK YOU.
OBVIOUSLY I'M GOING TO VOTE IN
FAVOR OF THIS PARK.
GREAT.
I GUESS I'M JUST I KNOW THAT
PARKS APARTMENTS LIKES IT'S
MORE TO MAINTAIN NOW THAT IT'S
LIKE BECOMING A PARK AND I WAS
JUST LOOKING AT THE MAP IT'S
LIKE RIGHT BABATZ IT'S TEN
MINUTES AWAY FROM ANOTHER PARK.
I ASSUME THAT WHEN THE PARKS
DEPARTMENT IS THEY HAVE A
PROCESS THAT THEY GO THROUGH
AND THIS WAS DESIGNATED AS AN
AREA THAT NEEDED THIS AND THAT
IS WHY WE ARE THEY HAVE
ACQUIRED THIS AND WE ARE DOING
THIS.
SO I HAPPEN TO KNOW THAT THE
THERE IS ACTUALLY QUITE A
ROBUST PROCESS THAT IS FOLLOWED
AND THERE'S A WHOLE LIST
OF CRITERIA FOR PARK
ACQUISITIONS AND MAIMINGS AND
ALL SORTS OF THINGS THAT GO
THROUGH AND ARE ALSO RECORDED
BY THE PARKS ADVISORY
COMMISSION.
SO THIS PARTICULAR PARK WOULD
HAVE ALSO I BELIEVE BEEN
DISGUSTED AT THAT BODY SO WE
CAN BE ASSURED THAT THIS WAS AN
AREA THAT DOES NEED THIS PARK
AND NOT JUST LIKE OH THIS PARKS
BECAME AVAILABLE.
>> LET'S JUST TAKE IT.
I CAN ASSURE YOU ROBUST PROCESS
PROCESSES.
I CAN ALSO LET YOU KNOW THAT
THERE'S A MILLION DOLLARS
AVAILABLE FOR PARK ACQUISITIONS
AND THAT'S AND THEN AND THEN
MAINTENANCE ALSO RIGHT.
I THINK YOU'LL HEAR FROM THE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH AND THE
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
POLICE JUST TO FOLLOW UP ON
COMMISSIONER, IT'S VERY GOOD
QUESTION.
>> I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT A
ROBUST PROCESS WAS FOLLOWED
BECAUSE THIS USED GREENBELT
FUNDS AND THAT'S A PRETTY
RIGOROUS THING.
SO PERHAPS IT WOULD BE GREAT
JUST TO HAVE WHY WHY DID YOU
KNOW HAVE THEM ASK THAT PARKS
PEOPLE TO PUT THAT IN SOME MEMO
MAYBE NOT IN THE PLANNING
STAFF'S MEMO BUT IN ATTACHMENT
FOR COUNCIL SO THEY KNOW WHY
THIS WAS ACQUIRED.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
JOSH COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
SO I CAN'T FIND IT RIGHT NOW
BUT I DID LOOK THIS UP EARLIER
BECAUSE I HAD THE SAME QUESTION
AND IT WAS ACTUALLY FIRST
DISCUSSED BY COUNCIL IN 2021.
SO IT HAS TAKEN SOME TIME AND
IT WAS PLANNED FROM ST. JOE'S
THAT THE CITY BOUGHT AND IT WAS
IN LARGE PART TO SERVE THE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT THAT'S
RIGHT ADJACENT SEIBOLD SEYBOLD
ROAD AND I THINK THERE WAS A
LOT OF DISCUSSION ABOUT IT AND
THAT IT WAS SORT OF AN
UNDERSERVED AREA BECAUSE YOU
HAD TO CROSS BIG ROADS TO GET
TO A PARK AND THAT WAS WHAT WAS
IN IT IN 2021.
SO IT'S KIND OF EXCITING THAT
LO THESE MANY YEARS LATER IT'S
ACTUALLY COME INTO TO THE FRONT
BUT YEAH, I HAD THE SAME THING
BECAUSE I THOUGHT WELL THAT BE
A GOOD SPOT FOR HOUSING BUT IT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE A
GOOD SPOT FOR A PARK.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS SEEING
NO ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE
MISKELLY ON THE MOTION AS
PRESENTED COMMISSIONER NORTON
YES COMMISSIONER ADAM YES
COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER TO BE YES COMMISSIONER
MELS YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT YES.
THAT CARRIES ON TO A OTHER
BUSINESS.
I WILL INTRODUCE THE PETITION.
IT'S OUR TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
CALENDAR ADOPTION AND WE HAVE A
STAFF PRESENTATION
OH HOT OFF
THE PRESS FROM YESTERDAY WE
RECEIVED THE CITY COUNCIL
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE CALENDAR AND
WE MADE SOME LAST MINUTE
ADJUSTMENTS TO THE DRAFT THAT
IN YOUR PACKET ACCORDINGLY
YOU'LL SEE THAT THERE ARE
CERTAIN DATES THAT HAVE BEEN
MOVED FOR SCHEDULE ADJUSTMENTS
DUE TO CITY HOLIDAYS AND WE
WORK BACKWARD FROM PRIORITY IN
THIS ROOM AND ALSO SEAT OUR
CITY AND TIME FROM CITY COUNCIL
SO THE BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
HAVE TO ENSURE WE'RE NOT
CREATING CONFLICTS.
SO WHAT IS IN YOUR PACKET IS
WHAT WE PROPOSE FOR TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE THERE ARE NUMBERED
CHANGES FOR ALL OF THE ITEMS
WHICH HAVE BEEN SHIFTED AROUND
DUE TO THE REASONS THAT I JUST
MENTIONED
AND IT WOULD HAVE
YOUR FIRST JANUARY MEETING ON
JANUARY 7TH.
WE ALSO INCLUDED THE SOMETIMES
WE'VE PRESENTED THESE AS
SEPARATE CALENDARS FOR THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
OR OTHER CALENDARS.
WE THOUGHT IT WOULD BE MORE
EFFICIENT TO JUST INCLUDE THOSE
HERE AND ALSO TO MAKE SURE YOU
HAVE SOME DATES YOU CAN SET
ASIDE FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE WHICH HAS
BEEN REQUESTED.
SO I ENDEAVOR TO PIN THOSE DOWN
FOR YOU AND I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU MIGHT
HAVE.
WE DID SCOUR THESE FOR
CONFLICTS AND WE ALSO ADDED
SOME ADDITIONAL SCHEDULE
ADJUSTMENTS THAT WE THOUGHT
WERE APPROPRIATE.
FOR EXAMPLE, FOR HIGH HOLIDAYS
FOR ROSH HASHANAH AND SO FORTH
.
THANK YOU.
ANY DISCUSSION QUESTIONS
SEEING
NONE.
I WILL READ THE MOTION AT THE
END OF OUR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION ADOPTS ITS TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE MEETING CALENDAR AS
PRESENTED IN THE AGENDA PACKET
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER MILLS'
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
.
RIGHT EDDIE?
OH NO I THINK THAT'S IT.
OH YEAH.
>> ANY DISCUSSION OF THE MOTION
SAYING NONE WE CAN DO A VOICE
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I
OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES WE
COME TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
ELEVEN THE FINAL PUBLIC COMMENT
FOR THIS MEETING.
THIS IS ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES THIS TIME ON ANY
ISSUE.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY.
PRESS STAR NINE LIVE ON PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
FOR ZOOME FOR PHONE ACCESS ONE
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN AND
IN OUR MEETING I'D SAY NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME FOUR RESUME
PARTICIPANTS.
YOU WILL HEAR A ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S RETURNED TO SPEAK.
PLEASE ENSURE YOU ARE IN A
QUIET AREA MUTE ANY NOISE FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT
WHO'D LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION SEEING NONE
THAT WE ACQUIRE ANY ZOOME
PARTICIPANTS WE DID NOT SO I
WILL CLOSE THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
IS THERE ANY UM COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS?
>> I WOULD LIKE TO SHARE
SOMETHING AND IF THAT'S A YES
YOU YOU ABSOLUTELY MAY THANKS
THE PUBLIC COMMENTER EARLIER
ASKED ABOUT WHERE TO FIND
INFORMATION ABOUT THE ELBOW
FIELD PROJECT AND IT APPEARS
THAT MOST THAT IS CONSOLIDATED
ON OUR ONLINE PERMITTING
SOFTWARE WHICH IS CALLED STREAM
UNDER ALL CAPS.
UM DASCH PROJ TWENTY THREE DASH
0002 YOU CAN ACCESS ONLINE
INFORMATION BY GOING TO STREAM
THAT A2 GUBJRG TO FIND
INFORMATION SUBMITTED MATERIALS
ABOUT PETITIONS SO STAFF MEMOS
ABOUT TRAFFIC CIRCULATION OR
ANY COMMENTS ENGINEERING
COMMENTS WHICH HAVE BEEN
PROVIDED TO U OF ARE VERY
LIKELY TO BE IN ONE OF THE
PERMITS THAT IS ASSOCIATED WITH
THAT PROJECT.
HOWEVER IF THAT'S TOO MUCH TO
GO THROUGH YOU CAN STILL EMAIL
ENGINEERING AT TO UPDATER BUT I
DID WANT TO SHARE THAT EVEN
THOUGH YOU'VE VOLUNTARILY
PARTICIPATES IN MANY REVIEWS
WITH THE CITY, WE DO CAPTURE
THOSE UNDER PROJECT IDS AND IN
THIS CASE THE CIVIL
CONSTRUCTION PLANS ARE STILL IN
PROCESS.
FOR EXAMPLE, THERE IS RIGHT
OF PERMITS ON PROCESS FOR
VARIOUS RIGHT AWAY PERMITS SO
THOSE CAN ALL BE VIEWED BY
GOING TO STREAM RECORD SEARCH
AND THEN TYPING IN YOU COULD
TRY ELBOW ELBOW OR YOU CAN USE
THE WHOLE PROJECT D UMTS
PROJECT TWENTY THREE DUSH
TRIPLE ZERO TWO.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS
SIEGMUND WILL
MOVE TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
THIRTEEN WHICH IS A GERMAN MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER DISH SECOND BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR I OPPOSED GREAT.
THE MEETING IS ADJOURNED AT